---
date: 2016-12-05 03:34
status: public
title: 2016-12-05《自上而下》译后记
---

《自上而下》译后记

在英语世界，志愿者(volunteer)作为一个名词，出现于1600年，指的是“自愿提供军事服务的人”，它是从法语voluntaire来的。在军事语境里，“志愿军”是转为民用则是1630年代的事。



olunteering is generally considered an altruistic activity where an individual or group provides services for no financial gain "to benefit another person, group or organization".[1] Volunteering is also renowned for skill development and is often intended to promote goodness or to improve human quality of life. Volunteering may have positive benefits for the volunteer as well as for the person or community served.[2] It is also intended to make contacts for possible employment. Many volunteers are specifically trained in the areas they work, such as medicine, education, or emergency rescue. Others serve on an as-needed basis, such as in response to a natural disaster.


The verb was first recorded in 1755. It was derived from the noun volunteer, in C.1600, "one who offers himself for military service," from the Middle French voluntaire.[3] In the non-military sense, the word was first recorded during the 1630s. The word volunteering has more recent usage—still predominantly military—coinciding with the phrase community service.[3][4] In a military context, a volunteer army is a military body whose soldiers chose to enter service, as opposed to having been conscripted. Such volunteers do not work "for free" and are given regular pay.

志愿者精神也一直涵盖在中国传统文化中。中国文化一直强调家庭与社区观念，这对中国的志愿者们产生了长足的影响。自公元前4世纪起，孟子和许多其后的哲学家都强调“仁”、“与邻为善”及“社会理想”。这些都与现代志愿者精神息息相关。字1949年新中国成立以来，“为人民服务”和“学习雷锋，助人为乐”就一直为中国人所崇尚，并成为当代中国志愿者精神的先驱。在政府的支持下，志愿者精神日益受到社会的认可。2008年，北京奥运会动员了170万志愿者，保证了比赛的顺利进行。这是对中国当代公共服务精神的认可。



在翻译这本书过程中，我想到一个问题：人类社会第一个志愿者是谁呢？在中国文化里，一定是女娲，因为她抟起泥巴造人的时候，没有人要求她这么做，她的补天和造人都是自发自愿的。排除神话的元素，人类茹毛饮血之时，所

这本书是给什么人看的？

尽管按照本书作者的初衷，这本书的目标人权为组织的领导者，包括董事长、理事长、会长、执行主管、首席执行官或者其他管理人员，但是我在翻译中发现，这本书对于普通志愿者也有帮助。

书名怎么翻译

提到要对志愿者做肺结核检查，在我们看来似乎不能理解，查了美国一些志愿者组织的官方网站，才发现，原来根据美国一些州的法律，只有六个月之内没有得过肺结核的人，才有做志愿者的资格。这跟咱们国内

外国读者怎么评价

名词怎么统一

board现在有董事会理事会委员会三种译法

最后统一一种，并在第一次出现的地方，加译者注

现在的翻译是：

２０１０年时，美国国税局许可的纳税减免标准是：用于慈善事业的行驶里程税为每英里0.14美元（同时期用于商务活动的行驶里程税为每英里0.55美元）。从１９９７年美国《纳税人减税法》通过时的每英里0.12美元提高到这个标准后一直没有变过。

不合常理。

美国税务局的答复

FAQ #1 – I donate time or services. How much can I deduct?
You can not deduct the value of your time or services donated to a charity. Volunteers are often surprised about this. Of course, since the volunteer wasn’t paid for the services, they didn’t receive taxable income. No taxable income, no tax deduction – a simple, clean result.

Yes, 14 cents per mile is silly
Undoubtedly you’ve seen the regular updates from the IRS and other sources concerning deducting costs of use of a car. The Internal Revenue Code requires the IRS to adjust the business and medical mileage rates based on changes in costs of operating a vehicle. Beginning January 1, 2013, for example, you can deduct 56.5 cents per mile for business miles driven and 24 cents per mile driven for medical or moving purposes. The IRS based the standard mileage rate for business on an annual study of the fixed and variable costs of operating an automobile. The rate for medical and moving purposes is based on the variable costs as determined by the same study. The 14 cents is written right in the Internal Revenue Code (without language suggesting it be adjusted for inflation). See IRC Section 170(i) — which is part of the charitable deduction section of the Code. It hasn’t been changed in years. To get it changed, Congress will have to amend it — time to talk with your Congressperson.

How to Claim Charitable Mileage Deductions | Finance - Zacks

翻译什么风格

致谢

客套

I got this as a kindle ebook. Awesome! Some great information for DVS's and VP's that supervise them. There is a workbook that parallels this book well that will help you work through the ideas and put them into practice. I got it at a conference. I would recommend that you purchase both - if you are interested in establishing a GREAT volunteer program in your area of expertise.
Of course, any book by Susan is superb! Happy reading.

一点点纠正。有意识地改变。一发现自我攻击立刻停止。我这两年自己觉着改进很多。

以美德的名义自我攻击自我伤害，这是咱们传统文化中最坏的东西。

一旦意识到这一点，立刻就会给自己心灵松绑，很快就会体会到锁链落地的快乐。

——好友论自我攻击