---
date: 2016-11-01 18:17
status: public
tag: 编剧,序列编剧法,编剧大师班
title: 2016-11-01-关于序列编剧法
url: 2016-11-01-on-the-sequence-approach
---

好莱坞编剧[Ryan Condal - IMDb](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm2952284/?ref_=fn_al_nm_1)，对于序列编剧法（The Sequence Approach）有一段很精确的论述：

> You are using the sequencing method as I understand it to plot out your scripts first? Can you let people know what the sequence method is for those who have never worked with it? And can you talk about how it helps you plan what to write?

> Sequencing is gold. I hesitate to even talk about it, lest all of your readers go out and become overnight successes and put me out of work. I jest, but this approach really is that good. And there’s no magic to it, it’s just good, common sense. That’s what’s so brilliant about it.

> Essentially, you want to look at your script as eight 12–15 page sequences. Act 1 and Act 3 each get 2 sequences and Act 2 gets 4. Each sequence should have a mini-goal for the protagonist (some more defined than others) and a beginning, middle and end just like your script does. That way, you end up with a sequenced script that builds on itself and creates those wonderful “peaks and valleys” that create tension/release, tension/release all throughout your story. Each sequence has a goal—what is or isn’t accomplished at the end of it—and a first, second and third act just like your script. The first act of the sequence is the setup (2 or 3 pages), then the main body is the conflict (5–9 pages) and then the resolution (1–3 pages). Each sequence has to do with the greater goal of your story, each one building on the last and raising the stakes and conflict until the story and conflict is eventually resolved at the end of the script.

> The best feature of sequencing is that it makes your script digestible. Especially the second act. When you go in to outline your script, instead of having 120 pages of scary infinity, you have 8 clear sequences you need to design and create that fill out this larger structure.

> It’s simple brilliance and something every writer should be doing. Beyond having a killer concept, structure is king. Sequencing will eventually lead you to bullet-proof structure. And structure will get you respect and structure will win you jobs in the room, just like I have. Bad structure means bad screenplays, even if you have great dialogue and characters (which you should also have, of course—like I said, this shit is competitive!)

其实就是把电影分成若干小段，每段再分成三部份：开端，高潮，结局（达成目标/失败），这样电影的结构就十分清楚。

没有任何编剧法是万能的，序列编剧法也仅仅是对于好莱坞电影的一个描述而已，在Frank Daniel提出这种说法之前，好莱坞电影已经度过了自己的黄金时期，期间没有任何编剧法的理论，大家照样能写出很漂亮的剧本。