---
date: 2017-02-24 13:32
status: public
title: '2017-02-24-The greatest failure'
---

The greatest failure happened in my career. 

Disgraceful, shameful, full of regrets and remorse, one word--shocked.

The destiny has been writen. 

How naive and stupid I am.

A poor man whose life is full of frustration. 

Why I live when life is such a waste.

Deep in the dungeon, deep in the dungeon.

Why I am surprised. I just reap what I have sowed. That simple.

I need to rethink, reconstruct, remake everything.

But not now. Now I need silence.

The rest is Silence.

The failure and the cause.

Today when I went to Zibo railway station from Zhanhua, I received Wechat message of Director Jin. He relentlessly criticized the screenplay I submitted on Monday and cancelled all the cooperations. 

I felt shocked. After several minutes, I replied:

> I understood all your decision. I will return the down payment of the screenplay which is 100k yuan within this year. All your decisions and actions are duly respected. I apologize for my ability and motivation. Thank you for all your support and cultivation. All the best wishes.

After that I felt very upset. It is I that messed everything up. It's my fault. I am not in the position to work two screenplays in the same time. And I am still an amateur screenwriter. 

Although, my Enemy was attacking me badly, I know that his old tricks. Surely I am not a perfect man. Worse than that, I am a sinner indeed. But Jesus has redeemed me. That was the reason he died on the cross. Maybe I am not a qualified screenwriter. It's not a deadly fault. I can try another way. I can write other styles, essays, novel, poems, stage plays. To be rejected is not a doomsday. I can start my writing career from the very beginning.

I don't need blame myself. I don't need to commit suicide. What I should do is to stand up from where I stumble. I need to fulfill all my promise from now on. I need repay Dir. Jin's money. I live in dignity. It's fair.

Capital is capital. It has no mercy to anyone. If I want to survive, I need to know the game rule and abide it.

So, I am OK, and I will carry on.