# Taking the BYPASS
tags = #translation #JOSEPHEPSTEIN #NEWYORKER #HEART

Taking the BYPASS
A healthy man's nightmare

By Joseph Epstein

More than a year ago, I had bypass surgery. One of the side effects of such surgery is said to be depression, though going into the operation I was a good bit more concerned about death. I have, I suppose the normally skeptical and mildly dark views suitable to a man of my years--sixty-two of them--yet I believed that I did not have the attention span to sustain a lengthy depression, or at least I thought I didn't. Now I am less sure.

There must be several million Americans who have come through bypass surgery--The Harvard Heart Letter estimates that half a million such operations were done last year--yet it is exceedingly difficult to get a clear picture of all that such surgery entails, even though hospitals do try to educate patients about what they will go through. Most people feel somewhat heroic for having survived it; the block out the more hellish aspects of it; and they tend, in time, to look at it as a piece of repair work, like a ring job or a change of fan belts on an automobile. I wish I could feel that myself, and perhaps one day I shall, but at the moment I still feel that something more momentous has happened, and I think it may make more sense to try to get at what it is now, rather than to wait for yet more time to erase the sharp lines of recent memory.

As for depression, I had already gone through a good patch of it--nicely mixed with fear--when I was told that I might have to have the operation, officially called a coronary-artery bypass graft (C.A.B.G), and referred to by cardiologists as "cabbage." I have known a number of friend who, having had a heart attack at thirty-nine, has been through in twice. Yet, however common the surgery may be, it is an operation I dreaded as soon as I first heard about it, twenty-five or so years ago. In locker rooms, I saw men with lengthy zipperish chest scars and shuddered. 

I cannot say that I devoted my life to avoiding a bypass, but I did what I thought was a fair amount to ward off the possibility. I am five feet seven, have weighed between a hundred and thirty and a hundred and thirty-five pounds for years and generally pass for slender. For the most part, I have watched my diet--I used to joke that for me cheating my wife meant eating steak on a business trip. I haven't smoked cigarettes for nearly twenty years. For most of my forties, I palyed racquetball, and after a hip injury made that no longer possible I acquired the monstrous appliance called the Nordic Walk-FIT, on which I strode, Louis Armstrong and Jack Teagarden tapes accompanying me, for thirty minutes every other day. I have, in short, been a fairly good boy.

Perhaps this is the place to mention that I consider myself a Jewish Scientist, the rough equivalent of a Christian Scientist--at least, as far as that church's view of medicine is concerned. I share the opinion of Proust, whose father and brother were doctors, and who himself required the aid of doctors all his days but wrote, "To believe in medicine would be the height of folly, if not to believe in it were not a greater folly still." So I go to doctors hesitantly grudgingly, a bit nervously. 

Having said all this, I have to add that I like my internist, an intelligent and lucid man named Harry Jaffe, and perhaps the last man in America to be given the name Harry. A long time ago, I adopted the policy of calling all physicians who address me by my first name by their first names, and so Harry and I have been on a first-name basis for many years. LIke him greatly though I do, I had been able to avoid seeing Harry for five golden years, and would probably have continued to do so but for the inconvenient fact of my sixtieth birthday, on which I promised my wife that I would have a physical. I went in for it, stripped, took an EKG, had bood drawn, let Harry feel me for frightening lumps and bumps, and answered almost his fact-finding questions with a smug "No." He said he would call me in a week or so. When he did, he said that all seemed well, but the results of my cholesterol tests were a bit odd. My over-all cholesterol number was an enviable 169, and my so-called "bad" cholesterol was all right, but my "good" cholesterol was much lower than it ought to be. No urgency about this, but Harry thought I ought to take a stress test, just to make sure that everything was O.K.

Two or three weeks later I did, carrying a pair of gym shoes into the office of a youngish cardiologist on Central Street, in Evanston, Illinois, where I live. An agreeable nurse wired my chest and ankles to various monitoring devices. The cardiologist, a man with small round glassis and wearing khakis and a dark shirt and necktie, faced his heart-monitoring equipment as I stepped onto a treadmiss and began walking briskly to nowhere. I hade heard of men and women having heart attacks during stress tests; a common figure of speech was that, after a stress test, nurses had to "peel you off the wall." Mine proved no difficulty. Though the speed of the treadmill increased to three different levels, I found myself scarcely breathing heavily; until the third level, I was still talking with the cardiologist, about Comiskey Park and his behing a White Sox fan. After ten minutes, he turned off the machine, and asked me to sit on an examing table. I was still not breathing all that heavily.

"I'm sorry," he said, "but you failed the test."

"Failed it," I said, amazed.

"Yes, certain abnormalities have shown up. Get dressed and we'll talk about it."

The cardiologist told me that under stress my blood pressure went down, whereas most people's went up; and he added that after stress my EKG took a suspicious long time to return to its normal pattern. He said that he was going to prescribe some nitroglycerine pills for me and that he strongly suggested that I make an appointment--and make one soon--to take an angiogram