EDUCATION, POLITICS
Women in China: on the march
They have long been silenced or sidelined – if they weren’t smothered at birth. But now a booming economy has transformed their lives



Feb 1st 2014
BY HILARY SPURLING

Give this article
"impossible is nothing,” said my Chinese host in March, when I told her the English proverb “you can’t make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear”. She had just passed me a plateful of what looked like tiny, shiny, caramel-and-white striped silk purses. They turned out to be sliced pig’s ear, one of many traditional delicacies at a banquet that included fried ants, sea slugs and geese feet.

Of course almost nothing is impossible in a country where acrobats still juggle wooden chairs as if they were feathers or ping-pong balls—and where the gristle and cartilage of a pig’s ear turn up on your plate as an absurdly elegant appetiser.


What makes foreigners gasp and stretch their eyes in China now is the almost inconceivable speed and scale of the changes that, in the past ten years, have swept people off the land like a giant magnet. In 1990 three out of every four people still lived and worked, as they always had done, on farms. More than 40% have now moved to the cities. By 2015, according to an article I read in China Daily, based on a United Nations forecast, half the population will be urbanised.

The creative energy released by this frenetic development is palpable almost as soon as you step off the plane. It comes like a buzz off the people, especially the young women. When I arrived in the university town of Nanjing on my first visit to China in 2007, I spent days on end watching and talking to students, marvelling above all at the confidence, competence and poise of the girls. I was working on a book about Pearl Buck, who grew up in the Chinese countryside before teaching on the Nanjing campus in the 1920s, so I knew a lot about the world of these girls’ grandmothers: a slow-moving world where traffic went by river steamer or canal boat, and the only wheeled vehicle most people ever saw was a wheelbarrow. Girls were shut up at home on reaching puberty with no further access to the outside world, and no voice in their own or their family’s affairs. In traditional households they were forbidden to speak even to their husbands, except behind closed doors in the bedroom at night.

i’ve been fascinated by China all my life. The only two books I remember from early childhood were both Chinese. One was a collection of watercolours by Yui Shufang, “Chinese Children at Play”. It showed small boys with shaven heads and girls with black pigtails playing games I’d never heard of, and wearing clothes unlike any I’d ever seen. They had patterned tops and brightly coloured trousers: the sort of clothes children wear worldwide today, but I was a wartime child, and in England in the 1940s we mostly wore grey flannel skirts or shorts and plain drab hand-knits. This was my first picture-book, and I was entranced by it. The second was a storybook read aloud to me by my mother before I could read myself. “The Chinese Children Next Door” was about a family of six little girls who wanted a baby brother so badly that in the end their wish came true. The seventh child was a boy, the answer to his parents’ prayer, the pet and plaything of his elder sisters.

Both books bit deep and hard into my imagination. It was only years later, when I’d already started work on a Chinese book myself, that I came across the story that had meant so much to me as an episode in Pearl Buck’s memoirs, and realised that she was the author. “The Chinese Children Next Door” is a fictionalised version of the experience of her much older adoptive Chinese sister, a girl abandoned as a baby by her family and brought up as their own by Pearl’s parents. This sister was already a married woman with the first of six daughters by the time Pearl was born, and the two little girls grew up as best friends, witnessing the almost uncontrollable rage of the Chinese grandfather at a daughter-in-law who, year after year, produced only girls.

I knew “The Chinese Children Next Door” by heart as a child, probably because it echoed the much sadder stories my mother told me about her own early years, when she too was the youngest of six unwanted girls. Her mother finally managed, at her seventh try, to produce the boy who was all she and her husband had ever wanted in the first place. “My life was ruined when I was two,” my mother said. As a child I must have recognised, at any rate subconsciously, the harsh unspoken truths lurking between the lines of a story that made my mother’s early unhappiness somehow easier to bear. When Jawaharlal Nehru read Buck’s captivating tale aloud to Mahatma Gandhi on his sick-bed, both men burst out laughing. Like Buck, they were only too familiar with the realities of a world where female infanticide, domestic slavery and sexual bondage were commonplace.

education and earning power have given the female descendants of that world independence in the past decade, and with it the self-reliance that comes from an unprecedented measure of control over their own lives. For the young women I met in Nanjing and Shanghai, even the draconian one-child policy of the last 30 years has an aspect of liberation. They looked blank when I asked about sex discrimination. “For some reason my parents wanted a boy as well as me,” one of them said, laughing. Her family had managed to get permission for a second child on the grounds that the first—my informant—had a fatal heart defect. Her mother was already pregnant again when a neighbour informed the family-planning office that the grounds for the permit were fake, so the baby had to be aborted.

All of them assured me that nowadays no one was treated differently on grounds of gender; but older people insisted that you have to pay attention to how people behave, not what they say. The arrival of a baby boy is greeted with celebration, the birth of a girl with condolence. Official statistics say that newborn boys outnumber girls by 118 to 100 in spite of the fact that, according to my friends, boys cost more. Parents have to start saving to buy a house or a flat for a son from the day of his birth, because no man has a hope of marrying unless he can provide a home for his bride—and girls can afford to be increasingly picky these days, in this as in much else.

All this turns the rural society of the last 2,000 years and more upside down. “Low culture, small knowledge,” another Chinese friend said scornfully, describing the villages in poor western parts of the country where girls are still expendable, and the one-child rule is so irregularly enforced that a large family of sons remains many mothers’ ambition. On my first visit, four years ago, I took a trip up the Yangzi, from Nanjing to the Lu mountains, in one of the big comfortable well-equipped coaches packed with Chinese tourists exploring their own country for the first time in history. It took eight hours, and I watched seven films screened one after another at the front of the bus: gangster movies, hoodlum fantasies, heroic or comedy thrillers, historical romances set in an imperial past where corrupt magistrates connived with rapacious landlords to oppress the locals. All of them blurred after a bit into a violent continuum of fist fights, knife fights, sword fights, sensational chases and gun battles punctuated by shots, grunts and thuds. Above and behind the male mayhem we heard the perpetual high screams or subdued moaning of women being beaten, tortured and raped.


Girls have not been routinely crippled by their mothers since the abolition of foot-binding almost a century ago, but in the villages many still die at birth by the traditional methods of stifling or strangulation. Their fate, and the mindset that makes it possible, were uncovered by Xinran in the 1990s when she was a young Chinese radio reporter based on the banks of the Yellow River, and she explored them for the first time in detail in her latest book, “Message from an Unknown Chinese Mother” (2010). Xinran’s initial contact with village life was a shock for which nothing in her urban background had prepared her, and one that reverberates through all her books. When she travelled the length and breadth of China in 2006, some of the interviews she conducted reduced even her Chinese cameraman to horrified incredulity.

Many of the stories people told Xinran were not essentially different from the accounts Pearl Buck had listened to as a young woman 70 or 80 years earlier. Born in 1892, Buck grew up hearing a distinctive noise: the low urgent monotone of Chinese women explaining their problems to her mother, who had been instructed, as a newly arrived and very young American missionary, to set up a women’s Bible class. Buck’s mother decided almost at once that Christian conversion was the last thing these people needed. From then on her Bible class functioned as an unofficial clinic, dispensing practical advice and a listening ear to women who had never been listened to by anyone before. When Pearl in turn inherited the class, its members talked to her as freely and frankly as they had done to her mother.

“She eschewed ideology; she avoided taking sides; she steered clear of experts and officials,” says Leslie T. Chang, whose own graphic reporting of women’s lives in China today relies on precisely this lack of prejudice, along with intuitive sympathy and close attention. “Pearl Buck’s understanding of the country was built on years of patient observation, living in backwater cities and befriending students, housewives, servants and farmers.” Listening to ordinary people, and recording clearly and accurately what they say, form the basis of Chang’s “Factory Girls” (2008) as of all Xinran’s books.

Of course things have moved on since Buck’s day. Starvation is no longer endemic in the countryside. Girls are not commonly driven to suicide by implacable mothers-in-law, nor sold into slavery or exchanged for food in time of famine. Even the villages now have television and telephones. But rural society is still constricted by isolation and hardship, by lack of prospects and, for women, by dread of conceiving a baby girl.

the realities of ordinary lives are no more up for discussion in China now than they were then. Buck’s account of a farming family in “The Good Earth” was widely attacked for its frankness when it came out in 1931. My biography of Buck has, I’m told, been severely cut in the Chinese edition: certainly it looks surprisingly slim. Chang’s book, published in the West in 2008, has yet to appear on the Chinese mainland. Xinran’s books have long been officially banned although, when the Guardian named her one of the world’s top 100 women on International Women’s Day in March, Beijing finally authorised the circulation of all but one of them in English translation.

Whether or not the women Xinran interviewed will ever read their own stories in print is another question. As a reporter in the 1990s she found people in the villages incurious, mute, reluctant to acknowledge the presence of a woman, let alone to answer her questions. Even in the towns she met with stubborn resistance. “The Chinese stood up against me,” she says. “They had never heard of the Cultural Revolution. They’d never heard of poverty in the countryside. Why was I trying to make them lose face?” I found the same attitude again and again in today’s students, who couldn’t see the point of deliberately stirring up their country’s history.

The past played no part in Chang’s conversations with the factory girls who had migrated from their villages to operate the assembly lines that produce the clothes we wear, the computer parts we need, the shoes, hats, handbags, games and gadgets that make the Western world go round. They work up to 13 hours a day, live in cold, dirty, overcrowded dormitories and eat poor food. They have no free time, health insurance, holidays or pension provision beyond the paltry state minimum. Three years ago their average wage was between 500 and 800 yuan—roughly £50-80—a month. Today, a shortage of labour means that young women in their 20s, the elite of the migrant workforce, can earn three times as much, or more.

They return to their villages at New Year bearing gifts: anoraks, trainers, sweets and toys for the children, pretty jackets for their mothers. They also inject unprecedented sums of money into the rural economy. Young unmarried women now subsidise their parents, pay for the education of younger brothers and sisters, distribute handouts to elderly relatives, and command growing respect from the village as well as from their families. Some go back home to settle, bringing capital and know-how. A friend told me about her female cousin who returned to farm the land in the village where their grandparents lived in a mud house with paper windows. People like this are beginning to put up glass-and-stone two-storey houses in the country, conspicuous proof of an alien world of development and enterprise. Factory girls may look victimised to outsiders, who take them to be helpless, ill-paid and insecure, easy prey to sexual and financial exploitation, stuck on the lowest and most vulnerable level of society. “But that’s not how they see themselves,” says Chang. In their own eyes they are proud, resourceful, energetic risk-takers at the cutting edge of a social revolution.


i overlapped with Xinran and Chang on the eastern book-festival circuit in March, spending nearly a week with Xinran in Dubai, following Chang into Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai. Listening to them talk about their books, and talking myself about mine, I realised for the first time how directly our subjects interlinked, and how, underlying the relentless change in China, there is much continuity. The first stories Buck wrote were about change, modernity, the seismic shifts already beginning to crack the country apart in the opening decades of the 20th century. She saw water come from the tap for the first time in 1900, and watched the first train come roaring out of a tunnel in the hill outside her home town of Zhenjiang four years later. Her parents had known the place as a sleepy market town before it became a foreign treaty port, a rich and expansive trading centre strategically positioned where the Yangzi meets the Grand Canal, in those days China’s main north-south traffic artery. The region still produces fish, rice, silk and tea, but, with the coming of roads, Zhenjiang dropped back into the sticks.

This year, some of its inhabitants told me with satisfaction, it finally tore down the last of its old houses. It has become a featureless provincial town, full of the kind of suburban shop fronts and drab apartment blocks familiar worldwide now that we all wear the same Chinese-made t-shirts, jeans and trainers, drive the same brands of car, and organise our lives in the same way by mobile phone. As I walked along the broad new embankment at twilight, I watched an aeroplane hanging against the pale sky. I did not realise, until I found it still there on my way back half an hour later, that it was a stationary paper kite—the contemporary equivalent of the flying pagodas I loved as a child in “Chinese Children at Play”.

I visited the school where Buck taught in 1915-16, now the Pearl S. Buck Middle School. Her students, all boys, were eager and hungry, starved of information even more than food. Today the school is mixed, but the intake still comes from poor families who could not otherwise afford education. One boy wanted to be a writer. One girl was so tense her lips moved all through my talk as she rehearsed, repeatedly, the question she planned to ask me in English. Another boy, falling over his words in a rush to get them out, explained that he had never spoken to a foreigner before, and it made him so nervous that he hoped I wouldn’t be angry. These teenagers, like all the students I met, wanted to know what Buck had done for their country, how I rated her books, and what I thought of her translations from the Chinese.

Buck’s books were banned under Mao, and she herself was classified a Public Enemy, guilty of peddling cultural imperialist lies. On my first visit to Zhenjiang four years ago, research in any normal sense seemed impossible. “It’s been too long, and no people want to talk about Pearl Buck,” I was told firmly. The house she lived in as a child had been destroyed, her mother’s grave was now buried under a housing development. Even the names of the people she knew locally had been removed from the Chinese edition of her memoirs.

Her slow rehabilitation speeded up just over a year ago when she was ranked, with government approval, one of the Top International Friends of China. Now there is a museum in her name, as well as the school whose pupils are learning to re-evaluate her. These children are more fortunate than their parents and grandparents. Many, perhaps most, will go on to university. I’m told that even people earning the basic subsistence wage of three yuan a day reckon to spend one on food, one on rent and a third on education. Schooling is tough and ferociously competitive for pupils. They start at six years old (preparations for entry can begin as young as three) and are weeded out from then on by cut-throat examinations. The young women I talked to all agreed that it was virtually impossible to find a Chinese school where children felt relaxed and happy. Many of them knew of young families who had left the country altogether to settle abroad rather than put an only child through the rigours of their own system.

But it is obvious to even the most cursory observer that education drives China. The university boom started as a means of extricating the country from economic recession. Wherever I went I talked to students in packed classrooms holding 250 or more. The huge new campuses on the outskirts of big cities were powerhouses, put up initially with strictly limited staff and resources to produce the new educated generation that has mobilised change. In the prosperous east, 50% of the school-leavers are now university-educated, and it is more like 70% in a city such as Nanjing.

this is a world without maps. There were no street plans or road maps under Chairman Mao, so even professionals don’t know how to read them. When the car in front skids to a halt without warning, it is generally because the driver is ringing a friend to ask how to get somewhere. On my first visit to the little country town where Buck set “The Good Earth”, still a backwater in the poorest part of Anhui, the massive mud ramparts, the mud houses and the muddy main street had all gone, leaving almost nothing she would have recognised except the street markets. When I spotted one of these down a side turning, the driver slammed on his brakes in the middle of a newly built four-lane highway, and simply abandoned his car while we got out to investigate. The side-street was lined, as it had been in Buck’s day, with stalls selling fruit, vegetables, mounds of different coloured grains, beans and pulses, caged and loose chickens, crates of white pigeons, great baskets of red and black crayfish, and live fish in plastic bowls of water: shrimp, crab, frogs, eels, lithe dark trout, silvery flatfish, white water-worms. Tailors and shoeshine boys worked from the gutter, and the air was filled with the smell of roast sesame seed from freshly baked buns, pancakes and waffles.

Places like this disappear too fast for maps. Any number of people told me about going back home after a few years away, only to find the streets where they grew up had vanished as completely as if they had never existed. In one of Buck’s earliest stories a hot-water seller watches his home, his business and his entire community being bulldozed to make way for the first modern road that ripped through Nanjing’s old city in 1927. This year Xinran arranged for me to meet a maker of paper lanterns who had the same thing happen to him during a more recent clearance round Nanjing’s Confucius temple.

His family belonged to a fraternity of 200-300 lantern-makers, now forcibly dispersed. They sold their seasonal wares on stalls round the temple at New Year from the reign of the first Ming emperor in the 15th century until Chairman Mao very nearly stamped out the trade during the Cultural Revolution. Today, Mr Lu’s cramped workshop in another part of town is still crammed with dragons, lions, unicorns, frogs, fish, lobsters, rabbits, exquisite pink silk lotus blossoms and tiny paper water-lilies, all cut, coloured and pasted by hand. His masterpiece last year was a traditional nine-dragon setpiece: a six-foot-long painted coffer designed to be carried shoulder-high with exuberant illuminated paper dragons prancing or coiled round the sides in red, green, blue, yellow and orange.

All of these are the product of hard labour in the sweltering heat of summer or in the freezing winter (in March, people were still wearing their padded coats indoors and out, in shops, restaurants, classrooms, even in their own homes). An order in hand for nine large lotus lanterns—a speciality invented by Mr Lu himself after close study of the originals on Nanjing’s Lotus Lake—could be met only by working late into the night for a week. The individual paper petals of the countless water-lilies designed to be floated every year on the lake had to be minutely and evenly scored, folded and crimped by hand, until two years ago when Mr Lu installed a simple, hand-operated drum-and-cable machine that can turn them out, two or three at a time, every four or five minutes. Even so each flower still needs to be individually assembled, tied and glued round a coloured nightlight.

Mr Lu, who is 70, has been practising and refining his skills since he was ten. “Nowadays the young people can’t stick at it for even one day,” he complains. He and his wife, also 70, face an uncertain future with dwindling custom, no one to take over from them and employees increasingly reluctant to work all day every day for less than the state retirement pension. Far worse, from their point of view, is the indifference or contempt of the young for a rich, complex, ancient art of colour and form that goes back 500 years and takes a lifetime to master.


Yet people like this are perhaps better off than the lost generation now in their 50s, men and women who grew up unskilled and uneducated when the schools were shut for ten years in the Cultural Revolution, forcing them to work as drivers, cleaners or manual labourers. The much younger women I met belong to what is generally agreed to be the luckiest of all the generations, born in the 1980s and 1990s to a time of prosperity and social mobility no longer so stringently constrained by political or practical exigencies of hunger and want. “They think differently,” one of their elders said to me.

buck described a young Chinese university colleague with a postgraduate degree from America who flatly denied, during one of the many great famines, that such things could happen in China. She had seen desperation and misery at first hand in Chicago slums, but nothing Buck could say would persuade her to climb Nanjing city wall to see for herself refugees from the villages round about camping out without food or shelter.

I found similar indignation from polite but insistent students. Didn’t I know how much China had changed, they asked. The modern world had made a clean break with the sad primitive outmoded countryside depicted in “The Good Earth”. Didn’t I realise how little that world had to do with them now? People everywhere wanted to know what I meant by the title of my biography, “Burying the Bones”. I explained that it came from a passage in Buck’s memoirs about how, as a small girl, she made secret grave mounds for tiny dismembered limbs or fragments of skull—the remains of newborn girls thrown out for the dogs to devour—that she found in the tall grass beyond her parents’ back gate.

It seemed to me an image of amnesia, public and private. Heads always nodded in my audience when I said that all of us have bones to bury, things that are never talked about in families, things a whole nation might prefer to forget. People in China now dismiss their ugly memories just as people all over Europe dismissed the Holocaust for many years after the war. “Children can’t bear to remember what happened to their parents,” says Xinran, who recorded the life stories of men and women in their 70s and 80s in “China Witness” (2008), the only one of her books that remains banned today even in translation.

Buck insisted that our grandparents’ world belongs also to us. The past made us what we are now, and we forget it at our peril. At the end of my last talk at Nanjing university, a student pointed out that burying the bones has a further meaning in China, where the dead are traditionally returned to the earth from which they came so that they may find peace. He might have added that it is only when the past has been acknowledged and accepted that it can finally be laid to rest.

photograph david hogsholt

教育, 政治
中国的妇女：在前进的路上
长期以来，她们一直被压制或被排挤--如果她们不是在出生时被扼杀的话。但是现在，繁荣的经济已经改变了她们的生活。



2014年2月1日
作者：HILARY SPURLING

给这篇文章
三月，当我告诉她英国谚语 "母猪的耳朵是做不出丝绸钱包的 "时，我的中国主人说："不可能是什么"。她刚刚递给我一盘看起来像小小的、闪亮的、焦糖和白色条纹的丝绸钱包。这些东西原来是切片的猪耳朵，是宴会上众多传统美食之一，其中包括炸蚂蚁、海蛞蝓和鹅脚。

当然，在这个国家，几乎没有什么是不可能的，杂技演员仍然把木椅当做羽毛或乒乓球来耍，而猪耳朵的肉和软骨则作为一种荒谬的优雅开胃菜出现在你的盘子里。


现在让外国人在中国喘不过气来并睁大眼睛的是几乎难以想象的变化速度和规模，在过去的十年里，这些变化像一块巨大的磁铁将人们从这片土地上吸走。1990年，每四个人中有三个人仍然像以前一样，在农场生活和工作。现在，超过40%的人已经搬到了城市。根据我在《中国日报》上看到的一篇文章，基于联合国的预测，到2015年，一半的人口将被城市化。

这种狂热的发展所释放的创造性能量几乎在你下飞机时就可以感觉到。它就像人们，尤其是年轻女性身上的一种嗡嗡声。2007年，当我第一次访问中国时，我来到了南京的大学城，我花了好几天时间观察学生并与他们交谈，首先惊叹于女孩们的自信、能力和风度。我当时正在写一本关于珍珠-巴克的书，她在中国农村长大，1920年代在南京校园教书，所以我对这些女孩的祖母的世界有很多了解：一个缓慢发展的世界，交通靠河上的蒸汽船或运河船，大多数人唯一见过的轮子车是手推车。女孩到了青春期就被关在家里，不能再接触外面的世界，对自己或家庭的事务没有发言权。在传统家庭中，她们甚至被禁止与丈夫说话，除非晚上在卧室里闭门不出。

我一生都在为中国着迷。我记得幼年时唯一的两本书都是中国的。一本是芮淑芳的水彩画集《中国儿童在游戏》。书中展示了剃光头的小男孩和扎着黑辫子的女孩在玩我从未听说过的游戏，而且穿着与我所见过的任何衣服都不同。他们穿着有图案的上衣和颜色鲜艳的裤子：今天全世界的孩子都穿这样的衣服，但我是一个战时的孩子，在1940年代的英国，我们大多穿着灰色的法兰绒裙子或短裤和普通的单调的手织品。这是我的第一本图画书，我被它迷住了。第二本是我自己还不会读的时候，我母亲给我朗读的故事书。"邻家的中国孩子》讲的是一个有六个小女孩的家庭，她们非常想要一个小弟弟，最后她们的愿望实现了。第七个孩子是个男孩，他是父母祈祷的回应，是他的姐姐们的宠物和玩物。

这两本书都深深地咬住了我的想象力。几年后，当我自己已经开始写一本中文书时，我才发现这个故事对我意义重大，它是珍珠-巴克回忆录中的一段插曲，并意识到她就是作者。"邻家的中国孩子》是一个虚构的版本，讲述了她年长的收养的中国妹妹的经历，这个女孩从小就被家人抛弃，被珍珠的父母当作自己的孩子抚养。珍珠出生时，这个姐姐已经是一个已婚妇女，有六个女儿中的第一个，两个小女孩作为最好的朋友长大，目睹了中国祖父对一个年复一年只生女孩的媳妇几乎无法控制的愤怒。

我从小就对《隔壁的中国孩子》了如指掌，可能是因为它呼应了我母亲告诉我的关于她自己早年的更悲惨的故事，当时她也是六个不受欢迎的女孩中最小的一个。她的母亲在第七次尝试时，终于成功地生下了她和她丈夫最初想要的男孩。"我母亲说："我的生活在我两岁的时候就被毁了。作为一个孩子，我一定认识到了，至少是下意识地认识到了潜藏在故事字里行间的残酷的无言的真相，这使得我母亲早年的不快乐在某种程度上更容易承受。当贾瓦哈拉尔-尼赫鲁在病床上向圣雄甘地大声朗读巴克迷人的故事时，两个人都笑了出来。像巴克一样，他们对杀害女婴、家庭奴役和性奴役司空见惯的世界的现实非常熟悉。

在过去的十年里，教育和赚钱的能力使那个世界的女性后裔获得了独立，同时也获得了前所未有的对自己生活的控制所带来的自力更生。对于我在南京和上海遇到的年轻女性来说，即使是过去30年严厉的独生子女政策也有解放的一面。当我问及性别歧视问题时，她们面无表情。"其中一个人笑着说："由于某种原因，我的父母和我一样想要一个男孩。她的家人设法得到了生第二个孩子的许可，理由是第一个孩子--我的举报人--有致命的心脏缺陷。她的母亲已经再次怀孕，这时一个邻居告诉计划生育办公室，许可的理由是假的，所以孩子不得不被打掉。

所有的人都向我保证，如今没有人因为性别而受到区别对待；但是年长的人坚持认为，你必须注意人们的行为方式，而不是他们所说的。男婴的到来受到庆祝，女婴的出生则受到哀悼。官方统计说，新生男孩的数量以118比100的比例超过女孩，尽管据我的朋友说，男孩的价格更高。从儿子出生那天起，父母就必须开始存钱为他买房子或公寓，因为除非能给他的新娘提供一个家，否则没有男人有希望结婚--而现在的女孩可以越来越挑剔，在这方面和其他方面都是如此。

所有这一切都把过去两千年甚至更久的农村社会颠覆了。另一位中国朋友轻蔑地说："文化低，知识少。"他描述了中国西部贫困地区的村庄，那里的女孩仍然是可有可无的，而且独生子女的规定执行得很不规范，所以一大家子人仍然是许多母亲的理想。四年前，我第一次到访时，乘坐扬子江上的旅行，从南京到鲁山，乘坐的是大型舒适、设备齐全的客车，车上挤满了中国游客，这是历史上第一次探索他们自己的国家。花了八个小时，我看了七部在车头接连放映的电影：黑帮电影、流氓幻想、英雄或喜剧惊悚片、以帝国时代为背景的历史爱情片，其中腐败的地方官员与贪婪的地主勾结，压迫当地人。所有这些都在一段时间后模糊成一个暴力的连续体，包括拳打脚踢、刀剑相向、轰轰烈烈的追逐和枪战，并以枪声、呼噜声和砰砰声为标志。在男性混乱的背后，我们听到了妇女被殴打、折磨和强奸的高声尖叫或压抑的呻吟声。


自从近一个世纪前废除裹脚布以来，女孩们已经不再被她们的母亲惯性地打成残废，但在村庄里，许多女孩仍然在出生时就被扼杀或勒死的传统方法杀死。他们的命运，以及使之成为可能的心态，是欣然在20世纪90年代发现的，当时她是驻扎在黄河岸边的一名年轻的中国电台记者，她在她的新书《一位无名中国母亲的留言》（2010年）中首次详细探讨了这些问题。欣然与乡村生活的最初接触是一种冲击，她的城市背景没有任何准备，这种冲击在她的所有书中都有回响。当她在2006年走遍中国时，她所进行的一些采访甚至让她的中国摄影师都感到惊恐和难以置信。

人们告诉欣然的许多故事与70或80年前珍珠-巴克作为一个年轻女子所听的故事没有本质上的区别。巴克出生于1892年，从小就听到一种独特的声音：中国妇女向她的母亲解释她们的问题时发出的低沉急切的单调声音，而她的母亲作为一名新来的非常年轻的美国传教士，被指示成立一个妇女圣经班。巴克的母亲几乎立刻就决定，基督教徒的信仰是这些人最不需要的。从那时起，她的圣经班就发挥了非官方诊所的作用，为那些从未被人倾听过的妇女提供实用的建议和倾听的机会。当珀尔反过来继承这个班时，班上的成员就像对她母亲那样自由和坦诚地与她交谈。

Leslie T. Chang说："她避开了意识形态；她避免偏袒任何一方；她避开了专家和官员，"他自己对今天中国妇女生活的生动报道正是依靠这种缺乏偏见，以及直观的同情和密切关注。"珍珠-巴克对这个国家的理解是建立在多年的耐心观察上的，他住在落后的城市，与学生、家庭主妇、仆人和农民结成朋友。" 倾听普通人的声音，清晰准确地记录他们所说的话，构成了张欣然的《工厂女孩》（2008）和所有欣然的书的基础。

当然，自巴克的时代以来，事情已经发生了变化。饥饿已不再是农村的普遍现象。女孩们通常不会被顽固的婆婆逼得自杀，也不会在饥荒时被卖为奴隶或换取食物。即使是村庄现在也有电视和电话。但是，农村社会仍然受到孤立和困难的限制，缺乏前景，而且对妇女来说，害怕怀上女婴的恐惧。

在中国，现在普通人的生活现实并不比当时更值得讨论。巴克在《美好的大地》中对一个农业家庭的描述，在1931年出版时因其坦率而受到广泛攻击。我的巴克传记，据说在中文版中被严重删减：当然，它看起来出乎意料地瘦小。张国荣的书于2008年在西方出版，但还没有在中国大陆出现。欣然的书长期以来一直被官方禁止，尽管当《卫报》在3月的国际妇女节上将她评为世界100位最佳女性之一时，北京方面终于批准了所有书的英译本的发行，只有一本例外。

欣然采访过的女性是否能读到她们自己的故事，是另一个问题。20世纪90年代，作为一名记者，她发现村里的人不了解情况，哑口无言，不愿意承认有女人存在，更不愿意回答她的问题。即使在城镇，她也遇到了顽固的抵抗。她说："中国人站起来反对我，"她说。"他们从来没有听说过文化大革命。他们从来没有听说过农村的贫困问题。我为什么要让他们丢脸？" 我在今天的学生中一再发现同样的态度，他们看不出故意挑起他们国家的历史有什么意义。

在张晓明与工厂女工的谈话中，过去并没有发挥任何作用，这些女工从她们的村庄迁移到装配线上，生产我们穿的衣服、我们需要的电脑零件、使西方世界运转的鞋、帽、手袋、游戏和小玩意。他们每天工作长达13个小时，住在寒冷、肮脏、拥挤的宿舍里，吃的东西很差。除了微不足道的国家最低标准外，他们没有自由时间、健康保险、假期或养老金规定。三年前，他们的平均工资在500至800元之间，约为50-80英镑/月。今天，劳动力的短缺意味着20多岁的年轻女性，即移民劳动力中的精英，可以赚到三倍甚至更多的钱。

她们在新年时带着礼物回到自己的村庄：给孩子们的防风衣、训练鞋、糖果和玩具，给母亲的漂亮外套。她们还为农村经济注入了前所未有的资金。年轻的未婚妇女现在可以补贴他们的父母，支付弟弟和妹妹的教育费用，向年长的亲戚发放救济金，并得到村里和家人越来越多的尊重。一些人回到家乡定居，带来了资金和技术。一位朋友告诉我，她的女表妹回到村子里种地，而她们的祖父母就住在一间有纸窗的泥土房子里。像这样的人开始在乡下盖起了玻璃加石头的两层楼房，这是一个发展和企业的外来世界的明显证据。在外人看来，工厂女工可能是受害者，他们认为她们无助、工资低、没有安全感，容易成为性剥削和经济剥削的对象，停留在社会的最低和最脆弱的层面。"但他们并不是这样看待自己的，"张说。在他们自己的眼中，他们是骄傲的、足智多谋的、精力充沛的冒险者，处于社会革命的前沿。


3月，我与欣然和张国荣在东方读书节上重叠，在迪拜与欣然呆了近一周，跟着张国荣到香港、北京和上海。听他们谈他们的书，我自己谈我的书，我第一次意识到我们的主题是多么直接地联系在一起，以及在中国无情的变化之下，有许多连续性。巴克写的第一个故事是关于变化、现代性，以及在20世纪最初的几十年里已经开始使这个国家分裂的地震转变。1900年，她第一次看到水龙头出水，四年后看着第一列火车从她的家乡镇江市外的山上的隧道里轰鸣而出。她的父母知道这个地方在成为外国条约港口之前是一个沉睡的集镇，一个丰富而广阔的贸易中心，战略上位于扬子江与大运河的交汇处，在当时是中国主要的南北交通动脉。该地区仍然生产鱼、大米、丝绸和茶叶，但是，随着公路的到来，镇江又回到了乡村。

今年，它的一些居民满意地告诉我，它终于拆掉了最后的老房子。它已经成为一个没有特色的省级城市，充满了那种全世界都熟悉的郊区商店门面和单调的公寓楼，现在我们都穿着同样的中国制造的T恤、牛仔裤和运动鞋，开着同样品牌的汽车，用同样的方式用手机来安排我们的生活。当我在黄昏时分沿着宽阔的新堤岸行走时，我看到一架飞机悬挂在苍白的天空中。我没有意识到，直到半小时后我在回去的路上发现它还在那里，它是一个固定的纸鸢--相当于我小时候在《中国儿童游乐场》中喜欢的飞天宝塔的当代作品。

我参观了巴克在1915-16年任教的学校，现在是珍珠-S-巴克中学。她的学生都是男孩，他们渴望和饥饿，对信息的渴望甚至超过了对食物的渴望。今天，这所学校是混合型的，但所招收的学生仍然来自贫困家庭，否则他们无法负担教育。一个男孩想成为一名作家。一个女孩非常紧张，她的嘴唇在我的谈话中一直在动，因为她反复排练着她打算用英语问我的问题。另一个男孩在匆忙中说不出话来，他解释说他以前从未和外国人说过话，这让他非常紧张，希望我不要生气。这些青少年，就像我遇到的所有学生一样，想知道巴克为他们的国家做了什么，我如何评价她的书，以及我对她的中文译本有何看法。

巴克的书在毛泽东时代被禁，她本人也被列为公敌，犯有兜售文化帝国主义谎言的罪行。四年前我第一次访问镇江时，任何正常意义上的研究似乎都不可能。"有人坚定地告诉我："时间太长了，没有人愿意谈论珍珠-巴克。她小时候住的房子已经被毁，她母亲的坟墓现在被埋在一个住房开发项目下。甚至她在当地认识的人的名字也被从她的回忆录的中文版中删除。

一年多前，当她被政府批准列为 "中国最佳国际友人 "之一时，她的缓慢康复速度加快了。现在有一个以她的名字命名的博物馆，以及学校，其学生正在学习重新评价她。这些孩子比他们的父母和祖父母更幸运。许多人，也许是大多数人，将进入大学学习。我被告知，即使是每天赚取3元基本生活费的人，也要花1元钱买食物，1元钱买房租，1元钱买教育。学校教育是艰难的，对学生的竞争也很激烈。他们从六岁开始上学（三岁就开始准备入学），并从那时起通过残酷的考试将他们淘汰出去。与我交谈的年轻女性都认为，几乎不可能找到一所让孩子们感到放松和快乐的中国学校。她们中的许多人知道一些年轻的家庭已经完全离开中国，到国外定居，而不是让独生子女经历本国教育体系的严酷考验。

但是，即使是最粗略的观察者也能明显看出，教育推动着中国。大学的蓬勃发展是作为使国家摆脱经济衰退的手段而开始的。无论我走到哪里，我都会在容纳250人或更多的教室里与学生交谈。大城市郊区的巨大新校园是动力中心，最初是在严格限制的人员和资源的情况下建立起来的，以培养动员变革的受过教育的新一代。在繁荣的东部地区，50%的离校生现在受过大学教育，而在南京这样的城市，这一比例更高达70%。

这是一个没有地图的世界。毛主席时代没有街道规划或道路地图，所以即使是专业人士也不知道如何阅读。当前面的车在没有警告的情况下打滑停住时，一般是因为司机在给朋友打电话，问怎么去哪里。我第一次去巴克拍摄《大地》的那个乡村小镇时，那里仍然是安徽最贫穷地区的一个落后地区，巨大的泥土城墙、泥土房子和泥泞的主街道都已经消失了，除了街道上的市场，几乎没有她能认出的东西。当我在一个转弯处发现其中一个市场时，司机在一条新建的四车道公路中间猛踩刹车，在我们下车调查时干脆放弃了他的车。这条小街和巴克时代一样，两旁摆满了摊位，出售水果、蔬菜、成堆的不同颜色的谷物、豆类和豆制品、笼子里的鸡和散养的鸡、成箱的白鸽、大筐的红色和黑色小龙虾，以及塑料水碗里的活鱼：虾、蟹、青蛙、鳗鱼、体型轻巧的黑鳟鱼、银色的扁鱼、白色的水虫。裁缝和擦鞋匠在水沟里工作，空气中充满了新鲜出炉的包子、煎饼和华夫饼的烤芝麻味。

像这样的地方消失得太快了，地图上没有。许多人告诉我，在离开几年后回到家里，却发现他们长大的街道已经完全消失，就像它们从未存在过一样。在巴克最早的一个故事中，一个卖热水的人看着他的家、他的生意和他的整个社区被推平，为1927年穿越南京老城的第一条现代公路让路。今年，欣然安排我去见一位纸灯笼制作者，他在最近的一次南京孔庙清查中也遇到了同样的事情。

他的家庭属于一个由200-300名灯笼制作者组成的兄弟会，现在被强行驱散。从15世纪明朝第一个皇帝统治时期开始，他们就在孔庙周围的摊位上出售他们的季节性商品，直到文化大革命期间毛主席几乎将这一行业扼杀在摇篮里。今天，卢先生在镇上另一个地方的狭窄作坊里仍然挤满了龙、狮子、独角兽、青蛙、鱼、龙虾、兔子、精致的粉红色丝绸荷花和小小的纸质睡莲，都是手工剪裁、着色和粘贴的。他去年的杰作是一个传统的九龙摆件：一个六英尺长的彩绘棺材，设计成肩高抬起，红、绿、蓝、黄、橙四种颜色的纸龙奔腾或盘绕在两侧，盛气凌人。

所有这些都是在炎热的夏天或寒冷的冬天（在三月，人们仍然在室内和室外，在商店、餐馆、教室，甚至在他们自己的家里，都穿着他们的软垫大衣）辛勤劳动的产物。手头有一个9个大荷花灯的订单--这是卢先生在仔细研究了南京莲花湖上的原作后发明的一种特产--只有通过连续一周的深夜工作才能满足。每年设计在湖面上漂浮的无数睡莲的单个纸质花瓣必须用手工进行细微而均匀的划线、折叠和卷边，直到两年前，卢先生安装了一台简单的手工操作的鼓形电缆机，可以每隔四、五分钟翻出两到三朵。即便如此，每朵花仍然需要单独组装、捆绑并粘在一个彩色夜灯上。

现年70岁的卢先生从10岁开始就一直在练习和完善他的技能。"他抱怨说："现在的年轻人连一天都坚持不下去了。他和他的妻子也是70岁，面临着一个不确定的未来，客户越来越少，没有人接替他们的工作，员工越来越不愿意为了低于国家退休金而整天工作。在他们看来，更糟糕的是，年轻人对这种丰富、复杂、古老的色彩和形式的艺术漠不关心或嗤之以鼻，这种艺术可以追溯到500年前，需要用一生来掌握。


然而，像这样的人也许比现在50多岁的失落一代要好一些，这些人在文化大革命中学校被关闭了十年，迫使他们做司机、清洁工或体力劳动者，他们从小就没有技能，没有受过教育。我遇到的年轻女性属于普遍认为最幸运的几代人，她们出生在20世纪80年代和90年代的繁荣和社会流动时期，不再受到饥饿和匮乏的政治或实际紧急情况的严格限制。"他们的一位长者对我说："他们的思维方式不同。

他描述了一位拥有美国研究生学位的年轻中国大学同事，在许多大饥荒中，她断然否认这种事情可能发生在中国。她在芝加哥的贫民窟亲眼目睹了绝望和苦难，但巴克说什么也不能说服她爬上南京城墙，亲眼看到周围村庄的难民在没有食物或住所的情况下露宿。

我发现有礼貌但坚持的学生也有类似的愤慨。他们问，难道我不知道中国已经发生了多大的变化吗？现代世界已经与《美好的地球》中描述的可悲的原始过时的农村彻底决裂。难道我没有意识到那个世界与他们现在有多大的关系吗？到处都有人想知道我的传记标题 "埋骨 "是什么意思。我解释说，它来自巴克回忆录中的一段话，说的是在她还是个小女孩的时候，她为在她父母后门外的高草丛中发现的被肢解的小肢体或头骨碎片--新生女孩的遗体--做了秘密的坟堆，供狗吞食。

对我来说，这似乎是一个公共和私人的失忆症的形象。当我说我们所有人都有骨头要埋葬时，我的听众总是点头，那些在家庭中从不谈论的事情，整个国家可能宁愿忘记的事情。中国的人们现在否定了他们的丑陋记忆，就像欧洲各地的人们在战后许多年里否定了大屠杀一样。"欣然说："孩子们不忍心回忆发生在他们父母身上的事情。"她在《中国见证》（2008年）中记录了70多岁和80多岁的男人和女人的生活故事，这是她的书中唯一一本即使在翻译中仍然被禁的书。

巴克坚持认为，我们祖父母的世界也属于我们。过去造就了我们现在的样子，我们忘记它，就会有危险。在我最后一次在南京大学的演讲结束时，一个学生指出，埋葬骨头在中国有进一步的意义，在那里，传统上死者被送回他们来时的土地，以便他们可以找到和平。他可能会补充说，只有在承认和接受了过去之后，才能最终让它安息。

摄影：David Hogsholt