Dream of the Red Chamber
How to transform a classic, sprawling Chinese novel into an opera
An illustrious creative team has distilled the 2,500-page work into three hours of aria

Books, arts and culture
Prospero


Sep 14th 2016
BY Q.Q.

Give this article

“DREAM OF THE RED CHAMBER” is not a run-of-the-mill production for the San Francisco Opera, America’s second-largest company. To be sung in English, it had to be adapted from a 2,500-page 18th-century Chinese novel. Its principal cast members are all Asian. Most members of the creative team—composer, librettist, stage director and production designer—have Chinese backgrounds. None of this is a hindrance. Three-quarters of the tickets for the opera’s full run, which began on September 10th, were sold a month ahead of the premiere. And it has set a new record for San Francisco’s most expensive opening-gala table: $250,000 for 10 people.

One obvious reason for the success is enthusiastic support from the Chinese-American community, which is proud to see China’s most celebrated piece of literature introduced to a wider audience. “Dream of the Red Chamber”, also known as “The Story of the Stone”, is to Chinese people as Shakespeare is to English speakers. But unlike Shakespeare, it remains virtually unknown outside its home country.

The story follows the rise and fall of the noble Jia Family. At the beginning of the novel, the family is wealthy and powerful, thanks in part to one daughter being the emperor’s new concubine. But the heir to the family fortune, Jia Baoyu, is a headache. He has no interest in politics and prefers a carefree life in mansions, pavilions and sculpted gardens. Despite the occasional troubles common to such a big wealthy family, life is a pure aesthetic delight: breathtaking architecture, delicate cuisine, nature’s changing scenery, music, art and poetry. His family hopes to pair Baoyu with Xue Baochai, a cousin who could connect them to another wealthy family, but he falls in love with his brilliant cousin, Lin Daiyu. As the star-crossed lovers careen towards a tragic end, the family falls on hard times. After the emperor’s concubine dies, its wealth and power ebbs away.

Reading the novel is both a treat and a challenge. This expansive saga presents charming characters, especially women, but it is arduous work to know who’s who—there are at least 700 characters, and over 30 could be identified as main characters. It’s an encyclopaedia of Chinese culture: poetry, painting, music, medicine, rituals, cuisine, clothing, Buddhism and Daoism, all woven seamlessly into the plot. These incredible details allow a fascinating peek into daily life amid the Ming and Qing dynasties (though the novel is vaguely set in a fictional era). It is even modern in the way it invites reader participation: riddles and puns hint at the development of the story and the fate of the characters.


The fact that it lacks an ending also adds to its enchantment. Only 80 chapters in the current 120-chapter version can be attributed to the author Cao Xueqin, and other writers contributed the rest later based on original writings and speculation. Generations of scholars and readers have been so intrigued by its provenance that they developed a discipline—“redology”—to interpret the book. The novel was banned during the Cultural Revolution, but even Mao claimed he had read it at least five times and recommended it to his comrades.

Over the years, “Dream of the Red Chamber” has been adapted into all kinds of genres: local Chinese opera forms, dance, film and television. But rendering it as a Western opera is perhaps the trickiest. After all, how do you condense a novel so detailed and subtle into a couple of hours of aria? How do you choose between the risk of disappointing a Chinese audience and alienating a non-Chinese audience?

Librettist David Henry Hwang’s answer is you cannot. The Chinese-American playwright, best known for his Tony Award winning “M. Butterfly”, turned down the project at first. Bright Sheng, the project’s composer, won him over, and they created a plot that focused on the love triangle between Baoyu, Daiyu and Baochai. They sought a heartfelt tragedy with universal appeal, and gave the novel’s narrative some modern tweaks. Ann Waltner, a history professor at the University of Minnesota who teaches a course about the “Dream of the Red Chamber”, describes it as a reframing of Chinese traditions to fit global modern life. (The opera got its start in Minnesota, with funding from a Chinese heritage foundation in the city.)

The job of retaining cultural sophistication has been left to stage director Stan Lai and production designer Tim Yip. Mr Lai, one of China’s most revered theatre directors, praised Mr Hwang’s slightly distant view of the story. Mr Hwang does not read Chinese and had never read the novel before he took on the work. “Anyone who knows the novel too well wouldn’t be capable of making big cuts,” Mr Lai says. It is the visuals, he said, that will give full effect to the novel’s intricate personal relationships, politics and contemporary social norms. This is a smart strategy. Choices and compromises are inevitable. Those who already know “Dream of the Red Chamber” will be able to pick up on the subtle messages contained within its staging. For everyone else, the challenge is to make it an enjoyable opera.

红楼梦
如何将一部经典的、庞大的中国小说转变为一部歌剧
一个杰出的创作团队将这部2500页的作品提炼成三个小时的咏叹调

图书、艺术和文化
普罗斯佩罗


2016年9月14日
作者：Q.Q.

给这篇文章

"红楼梦 "对于美国第二大公司旧金山歌剧院来说，并不是一部普通的作品。为了用英语演唱，它必须改编自一部2500页的18世纪中国小说。它的主要演员都是亚洲人。创作团队的大多数成员--作曲家、编剧、舞台导演和制作设计师--都有中国背景。这一切都不是一个障碍。该剧于9月10日开始全场演出，四分之三的门票在首演前一个月就已售出。而且它还创造了旧金山最昂贵的开幕式餐桌的新纪录：10个人25万美元。

成功的一个明显原因是华裔美国人社区的热情支持，他们为看到中国最著名的文学作品被介绍给更多的观众而感到自豪。"红楼梦》，也被称为 "石头记"，对中国人来说，就像莎士比亚对英语使用者一样。但与莎士比亚不同的是，它在其祖国之外几乎无人知晓。

故事讲述了高贵的贾家的兴衰。在小说的开头，这个家庭富裕而强大，部分原因是一个女儿是皇帝的新妃子。但家族财富的继承人贾宝玉是个令人头痛的人。他对政治没有兴趣，更喜欢在豪宅、亭子和雕刻的花园里过无忧无虑的生活。尽管偶尔会有这样一个大富之家常见的麻烦，但生活是一种纯粹的美学享受：令人叹为观止的建筑，精致的美食，大自然变化的风景，音乐，艺术和诗歌。他的家人希望将宝玉与薛宝钗配对，薛宝钗是一个可以将他们与另一个富裕家庭联系起来的表妹，但他却爱上了他聪明的表妹林黛玉。随着这对明星恋人走向悲剧性的结局，这个家庭也陷入了困境。皇帝的妃子死后，其财富和权力也随之消退。

阅读这部小说既是一种享受也是一种挑战。这部庞大的传奇小说展现了迷人的人物，尤其是女性，但要知道谁是谁，却是一项艰巨的工作--至少有700个人物，有30多个可以被确定为主要人物。这是一部中国文化的百科全书：诗歌、绘画、音乐、医学、礼仪、美食、服装、佛教和道教，所有这些都与剧情无缝交织。这些令人难以置信的细节让人得以窥探明清时期的日常生活（尽管小说的背景依稀是一个虚构的时代）。它甚至以现代的方式邀请读者参与：谜语和双关语暗示了故事的发展和人物的命运。


它缺乏一个结局的事实也增加了它的魅力。在目前120章的版本中，只有80章可以归功于作者曹雪芹，其余的是其他作家后来根据原作和猜测贡献的。一代又一代的学者和读者对它的出处如此感兴趣，以至于他们发展出一门学科--"红学"--来解释这本书。这部小说在文化大革命期间被禁，但即使是毛泽东也声称他至少读过五次，并向他的同志们推荐了这部小说。

多年来，《红楼梦》被改编成各种类型的作品：中国地方戏曲形式、舞蹈、电影和电视。但把它作为西方歌剧来演绎也许是最棘手的。毕竟，你如何将一部如此详细和微妙的小说浓缩为几个小时的咏叹调？你如何在让中国观众失望和疏远非中国观众的风险之间做出选择？

编剧大卫-亨利-黄的答案是你不能。这位以获得托尼奖的 "M. Butterfly "而闻名的华裔剧作家一开始拒绝了这个项目。该项目的作曲家盛光明赢得了他的支持，他们创造了一个以宝玉、黛玉和宝钗之间的三角恋为中心的情节。他们寻求一种具有普遍吸引力的心灵悲剧，并对小说的叙述进行了一些现代调整。明尼苏达大学的历史教授安-沃特纳（Ann Waltner）教授了一门关于《红楼梦》的课程，她将其描述为对中国传统的重新构建，以适应全球现代生活。这部歌剧是在明尼苏达州开始的，由该市的一个中国遗产基金会资助）。

保留文化精髓的工作交给了舞台导演黎志强和制作设计师Tim Yip。赖先生是中国最受尊敬的戏剧导演之一，他称赞黄先生对这个故事的看法略显疏远。黄先生不读中文，在接下这部作品之前，他从未读过这部小说。"黎明说："任何对小说太了解的人都不会有能力做大的删减。他说，正是视觉效果将充分体现出小说中错综复杂的个人关系、政治和当代社会规范。这是一个聪明的策略。选择和妥协是不可避免的。那些已经了解《红楼梦》的人将能够捕捉到其舞台上所包含的微妙信息。对于其他人来说，挑战在于如何使它成为一部令人愉快的歌剧。