
The place of young women
Girl power up
Women are not just going to space, but starting to come out ahead of men in a wide range of fields

China
Analects


Jun 27th 2012
BY THE ECONOMIST ONLINE | BEIJING

Give this article

ON June 16th Major Liu Yang blasted off in the Shenzhou-9 space craft. At the age of 33 she became the first Chinese woman to travel to outer space. (A young girl in Gansu province, and a rank of all-women soldiers, watched her go.) Even as Ms Liu hurtled skyward, photographs of another young woman, Feng Jianmei, began circulating on China's microblogs. The graphic pictures, taken by her family, show Ms Feng lying on a hospital bed next to the body of her seven-month-old fetus, as she was left after local family-planning officials ordered her doctors to forcibly induce a miscarriage. Though the case sparked widespread outrage, this week there are reports that Ms Feng's husband has disappeared after the couple became the subject of locally orchestrated reprisals.

Ms Liu stands as an example of one of the most significant trends in China today: the emergence of a new generation of women, educated, ambitious and successful, who are playing pivotal roles in the country's economic and social development. Ms Feng's sad fate might remind us that even still they struggle against old-fashioned attitudes and the capriciousness of the state.

Women such as Zhang Xin, Yang Lan, Zhang Lan and Peggy Yu Yu rose from improbable, and sometimes quite humble, backgrounds to become influential and wealthy businesswomen. Their stories of self-made millions have in turn inspired other women to believe that hard work and perseverance—as much as a good marriage—can be a ticket to success. While men still dominate the ranks of the uber-rich, China is remarkable for the number of women who regularly appear on the annual list of China's 400 richest individuals.

In sport, Chinese women excelled in the rankings at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, considerably outpacing their male teammates in total medals. The ineptitude of the national men's football side is a much lamented topic of conversation among Chinese fans. The Chinese women's team by contrast has advanced to the quarter-final round of the World Cup four times since 1991. It even reached the finals once, in 1999, before losing a heartbreaker to the Americans on Brandi Chastain's iconic tournament-clinching penalty kick.

But even young women who are neither millionaires nor world-class athletes are taking advantage of new opportunities. This is particularly true of those fortunate enough to live and work in China's booming mega-cities.


Kate Ba is in her late 20s and works at a public relations firm in Beijing. While men might still wield a lot of the power, says Ms Ba, more women are rising through the ranks and they are not afraid of pursuing their own career goals. “My generation are just now starting to become managers, and in the future I think we'll see more women as presidents and CEOs, far more than in my mother's generation.”

With careers and jobs of their own, many women enjoy a financial independence unheard of in prior generations. Their higher earning potential brings them a greater say in family decisions and in choosing their own goals.

Changing demographics are another source of new opportunity. According Yang Yuli, who works as a producer for the BBC in Beijing, in the past parents' extreme preference for having sons would meant fewer resources were available for the education of daughters. (Sons were preferred in part for their role in staying on to care for their ageing parents, while daughters were compelled to marry into their husbands' households.) Now, in an age of only children, if a family's one child is a girl, parents have little choice but to groom her for long-term success. As Ms Yang has it, “it no longer matters if you are a boy or girl; you are the only person responsible for [your] family's future.”

Zhao Ning, an educational executive who just had her (first) child, agrees. “Girls no longer have to compete with male siblings for their parents' attention when it comes time for critical decisions about investing in a child's future or education.”

For many years now female high-school students have done much better than their male classmates in the gaokao, China's highly intense and competitive college-entrance exam. In 2004, just about half of the zhuangyuan in each province were women. (It's a term which refers to the highest scorer on either the humanities or sciences test and dates back to the imperial exam system.) Since then, however, the number of female zhuangyuan has grown steadily, topping the men in every year since except 2009. In fact, from 2006-2008 women accounted for more than 60% of the top scores by province. More and more women matriculating at China's top universities each year, though women are still the minority at the postgraduate level.

Success begets new challenges. Most striking is the impossible mission of striking a balance between career and family. Even in more developed economies, whether women can “have it all” or not is a subject of perennial debate. As elsewhere, working mothers in China struggle to find time to care for their own children, husbands and sometimes elderly parents too.

Ms Yang, of the BBC, argues that as only children, daughters are now facing many of the same pressures that used to land squarely on sons, including the need to find a livelihood capable of providing for their parents' retirement.

Those women who do want to start a family can find it difficult to break out of the newfound career track. Many women complain that the more successful and financially independent a woman becomes, the harder it can be to settle down. This prompts the fear of becoming a shengnü or “left-behind woman”.

According to Ms Ba, who recently married her longtime boyfriend, there is a stark difference in attitudes towards marriage one finds in larger cities, like Beijing, and the cities and towns of China's interior, where older attitudes persist.

“The traditional idea is to find a guy who can take of you,” says Ms Ba. “But in a bigger city—like Beijing—you can find a partner and grow together so that you don't have to depend on him. Women here want somebody who can help them achieve their goals and support them, not just feed them.”

For Josie Wang, in her mid-20s and also working in Beijing, there's more to finding the right partner than just property and practical affairs. Half of her friends see it the same way. “I still have friends who are looking for a guy to take care of them, but that's changing. Now it's like 50-50 with more and more of my friends saying they can look after themselves just fine,” she says. “Especially those who have been educated abroad; they feel it's important for a man to respect a women's independence.”

Ms Ba adds that some men still have trouble accepting a woman who has established herself in a career or makes more money than her potential groom. They avoid women who might outshine them. (This has not stopped men complaining about the number of baijinnü, literally “gold-worshipping women”.)

Other, older problems are even more serious. Many women working in China experience sexual harassment and discrimination based on gender or marital status. Retrograde attitudes clash with the desire of young women to be able to express themselves without being harassed.

Despite all the challenges, new and old, Ms Ba remains optimistic. “More and more women have their own career and their own ideas and this is going to continue. Society and husbands will have to adapt. There is no going back.”

(For a longer discussion of women in today's China, listen to this special edition of the Sinica podcast, with Mary Kay Magistad of PRI's “The World” playing host.)

(Picture credit: AFP)


年轻女性的地位
女孩的力量上升
女性不仅进入太空，而且开始在广泛的领域领先于男性

中国
论语


2012年6月27日
作者：《经济学家》在线｜北京

给这篇文章

6月16日，刘洋少校乘坐神舟九号航天器发射升空。在33岁时，她成为第一个前往外太空的中国女性。甘肃省的一个年轻女孩和一个级别的全体女兵看着她离开）。就在刘女士飞向天空的时候，另一位年轻女性冯建梅的照片开始在中国的微博上流传。这些照片由她的家人拍摄，显示冯女士躺在医院的病床上，旁边是她七个月大的胎儿的尸体，她是在当地计划生育官员命令她的医生强行引产后留下的。尽管该案件引发了广泛的愤怒，但本周有报道称，冯女士的丈夫在这对夫妇成为当地精心策划的报复对象后失踪了。

刘女士是当今中国最重要的趋势之一的例子：新一代女性的出现，她们受过教育，雄心勃勃，事业有成，在中国的经济和社会发展中发挥着关键的作用。冯女士的悲惨命运可能会提醒我们，即使她们仍然在与老式的态度和国家的反复无常作斗争。

张欣、杨澜、张兰和佩吉-于玉等女性从不可能的，有时甚至是相当卑微的背景中崛起，成为有影响力的富有的女商人。她们自食其力的故事反过来又激励了其他妇女，使她们相信努力工作和坚持不懈--就像一个好的婚姻一样--可以成为通往成功的门票。虽然男性仍然在超级富豪的行列中占主导地位，但中国在每年的中国400名富豪名单中经常出现女性的身影，这一点很了不起。

在体育方面，中国女性在2008年北京奥运会的排名中表现出色，在奖牌总数上大大超过了她们的男队友。国家男子足球队的无能是中国球迷中一个令人遗憾的话题。相比之下，中国女足自1991年以来已经四次进入世界杯的四分之一决赛。它甚至在1999年进入过一次决赛，然后在布兰迪-查斯坦的标志性比赛中输给了美国人，输得很伤心。

但即使是那些既不是百万富翁也不是世界级运动员的年轻女性也在利用新的机会。那些有幸在中国蓬勃发展的特大城市生活和工作的人尤其如此。


Kate Ba今年20多岁，在北京的一家公共关系公司工作。巴女士说，虽然男性可能仍然掌握着很大的权力，但更多的女性正在不断晋升，她们并不害怕追求自己的职业目标。"我们这一代人现在刚刚开始成为管理人员，在未来，我认为我们会看到更多的女性担任总裁和首席执行官，远远多于我母亲那一代。"

有了自己的职业和工作，许多妇女享有前几代人闻所未闻的经济独立。她们较高的收入潜力使她们在家庭决策和选择自己的目标方面拥有更大的发言权。

人口结构的变化是新机会的另一个来源。在北京担任英国广播公司(BBC)制片人的杨玉丽说，过去，父母对儿子的极端偏爱意味着可用于女儿教育的资源较少。选择儿子的部分原因是他们可以继续照顾年迈的父母，而女儿则被迫嫁入丈夫的家庭）。现在，在一个独生子女的时代，如果一个家庭的孩子是女孩，父母几乎没有选择，只能培养她取得长期的成功。正如杨女士所说，"你是男孩还是女孩不再重要；你是唯一对[你]家庭的未来负责的人。

刚刚有了第一个孩子的教育主管赵宁同意这个观点。"在对孩子的未来或教育进行投资的关键决定时，女孩不再需要与男性兄弟姐妹争夺父母的注意力。

多年来，女高中生在高考中的表现比她们的男同学好得多，高考是中国高度紧张和竞争激烈的大学入学考试。2004年，每个省的状元中只有大约一半是女性。这是一个术语，指的是人文或科学考试的最高得分者，可以追溯到帝国考试制度。然而，从那时起，女性状元的数量一直在稳步增长，除了2009年，每年都超过男性。事实上，从2006-2008年，女性占各省最高分的60%以上。每年有越来越多的女性进入中国的顶尖大学学习，尽管女性在研究生阶段仍然是少数。

成功带来了新的挑战。最引人注目的是在事业和家庭之间取得平衡这一不可能完成的任务。即使在更发达的经济体中，妇女是否能 "拥有一切 "也是一个常年争论的话题。和其他地方一样，中国的职业母亲也在努力寻找时间来照顾自己的孩子、丈夫，有时还有年迈的父母。

英国广播公司的杨女士认为，作为独生子女，女儿现在面临着许多过去主要由儿子承担的相同压力，包括需要找到能够为父母提供退休生活的生计。

那些确实想成家的妇女可能会发现很难突破新发现的职业轨道。许多妇女抱怨说，妇女越是成功和经济独立，就越难安定下来。这促使人们担心成为一个shengnü或 "留守妇女"。

巴女士最近与她多年的男友结婚，据她说，在像北京这样的大城市和中国内地的城镇，人们对婚姻的态度存在着明显的差异，那里的旧观念依然存在。

"巴女士说："传统的想法是找一个能够照顾你的人。"但在一个更大的城市，如北京，你可以找到一个合作伙伴，一起成长，这样你就不必依赖他。这里的女性希望有人能够帮助她们实现自己的目标，支持她们，而不仅仅是养活她们。"

对于同样在北京工作的20多岁的乔西-王来说，找到合适的伴侣不仅仅是财产和实际事务。她的一半朋友也是这样看的。"我仍然有朋友在寻找一个能照顾他们的男人，但这正在改变。现在就像50-50，我越来越多的朋友说他们可以自己照顾自己就好了，"她说。"特别是那些在国外接受过教育的人；他们觉得男人尊重女人的独立是很重要的。"

巴女士补充说，一些男人仍然难以接受在事业上有所建树或比她的潜在新郎赚更多钱的女人。他们避开那些可能比他们更出色的女性。这并没有阻止男人们抱怨拜金女（字面意思是 "拜金女"）的数量。

其他更古老的问题甚至更加严重。许多在中国工作的妇女遭受性骚扰和基于性别或婚姻状况的歧视。逆来顺受的态度与年轻女性希望能够表达自己而不被骚扰的愿望发生冲突。

尽管存在所有新的和旧的挑战，巴女士仍然很乐观。"越来越多的妇女有自己的事业和想法，这种情况将继续下去。社会和丈夫们将不得不适应。没有回头路可走。"

关于当今中国妇女的更长时间的讨论，请听Sinica播客的特别版，PRI "世界 "的Mary Kay Magistad担任主持人）。

(图片来源: AFP)