Mailbag 52: Nominating Other Elders When I’m the Only One; American Flags on the Stage

邮问有答52：作为唯一长老如何提名其他众长老；台上可否不插美国国旗

Mailbag

邮问有答52

02.17.2017

How does nominating new elders work when I’m the only elder?

我是教会唯一的长老，提名其他众长老需要什么流程？

Does having an American flag on stage obscure the message of the gospel? »

如果讲台上插着美国国旗，会不会扭曲福音信息？

Dear 9Marks,

致9标志：

I am in preaching a series on membership, elders, and deacons, and am planning on asking the congregation to nominate potential elders. 

我最近在做一个系列讲道，内容涉及成员制、众长老和众执事，我计划着提请会众提名有潜力做长老的人。

Right now, I am the only elder. The church called me when we particularized last year.

目前我是唯一的长老。我们的教会在去年分出来植堂的时候，呼召了我。

 Regarding nominations, should people make them privately to me and then I decide which to make public, or should we make all nominations public? I am inclined to the first option. 

关于提名有两种想法：第一，会众私下向我提名，由我决定哪些可以公之于众，第二，一股脑儿把提名全部公布，哪种更适当呢？我倾向于第一种。

I know a couple of the men who will be nominated are good men but, having spent time with them, I know they are not ready. I don’t want to put men out there who I know are not ready.

—Tom

我知道有几个弟兄会被提名，并且他们也是好人，但是，通过与他们的相处，我知道他们还没有准备好。我不希望把还没有准备好的人推向会众。

—汤姆。

Dear Tom,

I think your instincts are right. It’s good to take recommendations privately, but formal public nominations should come from you.

汤姆台鉴：

我想你的直感是对的。推荐应当私下进行，但是正式的提名一定要出自于你。

Admittedly, the biblical pattern for elder nomination and affirmation is difficult to discern. 

必须承认，符合圣经的长老提名和确认模式是很难分辨的。

On the one hand, the apostles ask the congregation to “pick out from among you seven men of good repute” and that “they chose” seven names for a role that would eventually line up with the office of deacon (Acts 6:3–4). 

一方面，使徒要求会众“当从你们中间选出七个有好名声”
的人，于是他们就“拣选了”七个人，管理这事，最终承担了执事的角色（使徒行传6:3-4）。

On the other hand, Paul and Barnabus “appoint” elders in Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch (14:23), and Paul tells Titus to “appoint” elders (different Greek word for “appoint,” though) in Crete. 

另一方面，保罗和巴拿巴在路司得、以哥念、安提阿“选立了”长老，保罗告诉提多要在克里特（旧译：革哩底）“设立”（尽管在希腊文里是表示“指定”的另一个词） 众长老。

Admittedly, the word used with Titus does not preclude congregational involvement, a point even Presbyterians acknowledge. Yet, back to the first hand, the churches “appointed” Titus to go as a missionary with Paul (2 Cor. 8:19).

须承认，提多书中使用的这个词没有排除会众的参与，这一点即便是长老会也认同。但是，回到第一点，提多“被众教会挑选”与保罗同行去传道（林后8:19）。

Absent a clear biblical prescription, I think we’re pushed to theological judgment and pastoral prudence. 

由于圣经没有开出明晰的方子，我认为应该把神学判断和牧者的审慎一并考虑。

For theological reasons I won’t belabor, I do believe the congregation possesses the final say for affirming elders or pastors (as an inference from passages like Gal. 1:6–9 and 2 Tim. 4:3). 

出于我无可辩驳的神学理由，我笃信会众对于确认长老或牧师有最终发言权（加1:6–9 提后 4:3的章节中可以推导出结论）。

Incidentally, many (most?) Presbyterians and Anglicans agree. 

巧合的是，很多（绝大多数？）长老会和安利甘教会的人赞同这一点。

As a matter of pastoral prudence, however, I think elders should nominate elders. At least three reasons commend this:

但是，出于牧者的审慎，我认为长老应该由长老提名。至少有以下三条理由：

First, as a matter of competence. You are the one elder or pastor the congregation has publicly affirmed as “able to teach” and “above reproach.” 

首先，能力问题。你是经过会众公开确认的牧长，善于教导，无可指摘。（需查原文的字词）


The fact that they affirmed you means you’re not going to remove their role entirely, but it also suggests that you’re the “safest bet” for who’s most competent to lead that process moving forward. 

当然，大家确认你的职份意味着你不能完全越俎代庖，但是，这意味着，当问谁最有能力把流程向前推进的时候，把宝押在你身上是最安全的。

You then lead that process through nominations; they remain involved by providing a final affirmation (which parallels the process for church discipline we see by comparing who exercises “judgment” in 1 Corinthians 5:3 and 12).

于是，你通过提名来推进流程；会众通过最终确认来确保参与（当我们比较谁下判断的时候，这与林前5:3和12所说的执行教会纪律的流程是并行的。）

Second, as a matter of pastoral and church unity. Imagine if the church nominated and affirmed someone whom you believed was not qualified. 

其次，教牧事务和教会合一的问题。想象一下，会众推举并确认了一个人，而你确信此人不合格。

The two of you would have to work together. So every time some issue arose in which you disagree, you would find yourself hard pressed to work through the disagreement since you don’t believe the man should be there in the first place. 

你俩将不得不一起工作。于是，每当你俩意见相左的时候，你会发现自己很难解开这个心结，因为你从一开始就不相信此人应该担任这一职份。

This disunity between the two of you would eventually affect the unity of the whole body. In fact, I’d even say that two pastors cannot work together for long when one pastor doesn’t think the other meets the qualifications in 1 Timothy or Titus (with some adjustments for the nature of the exact issue). One needs to go.

你们的这种不合一迟早会影响到全体会众的合一。我甚至可以断言，如果一位牧师认为另一位不符合提摩太前书或提多书罗列的条件（当然这些条件也会根据实际情况而调整），两位牧师不可能长期合作。有一位必须走。

Third, as a matter of protecting would-be nominees and their families. One elder friend tells the story about a man in his church who, in many ways, appeared to be an upstanding and godly man. 

第三，出于对即将被提名者及其家人的保护。一位年长的朋友讲过这样一个故事，在他的教会里有一个在诸多方面看上去都很虔诚和受人尊敬的人。

Externally, he possessed all the characteristics of a good leader. Every so often, therefore, someone in the church would publicly nominate this man since that is how their process works. 

从外面看，他具有作为一个好领袖的所有特征。因此，教会中有人按照流程公开提名此人。

The challenge was, the elders, through their pastoral care with this man and his wife, knew that he struggled with pornography. Therefore, every time a public nomination came, the elders had to find some way of turning down the nomination without needlessly embarrassing the man or his wife.

挑战在于，长老们通过牧导和他的妻子知道，此人在浏览色情的罪中挣扎。于是，每次有对此人的公开提名，长老们都会找一个理由拒绝，为的是避免此人和他的妻子遭遇不必要的难堪。

Bottom line: I do believe the congregation possesses the final say on who the elders or pastors should be, but I believe it’s pastorally wise for those nominations to come from the elders. And if you’re the only elder, that means it comes from you, at least for this first batch.

底线：我千真万确地相信会众对于谁担任长老或牧师具有最终发言权，但我也相信让提名由长老们提出，是出于牧者的智慧。如果你是唯一的长老，那意味着提名要由你动议，至少在一开始应当如此。

Last word: our elders continually invite the church to tell us (privately) who they think should be nominated. We very much want to know from them whom they see shepherding the flock. 

结语：我们的长老一以贯之地邀请教会会众（私下里）告诉我们谁应当被提名。我们很想知道他们看谁牧养群养合适。

Sometimes we get the names of people we never would have thought of, and, after a little bit of investigation, happily nominate them. I’d even say these kinds of private conversations are part of the culture of our church now. “Hey, Jonathan, have you guys ever thought of Jack as an elder?”

有时候，我们得到的提名有点意想不到，经过一番调查，最终很高兴地正式提名他们。我甚至可以放胆说，这类私下里的谈话已经是我们教会文化的一部分。我常听到会众对我说类似的话：“嘿，约拿单，你们长老们最近有没有考虑过让杰克担任长老？”

Hope this is helpful.

希望以上建议能帮助到你。

Dear 9Marks,

9标志敬启：

I’m wondering if you could comment on the usefulness or propriety of having American (or national) flags in the church auditorium. 

我想听听你的意见，在教堂的礼堂里摆放美国（或其他国家）国旗真的有用和适当吗？

Does it obscure the message of the gospel? Does it hinder the ability of a foreigner to worship with us? 

这样做会不会掩盖福音信息？会不会阻碍外国人尽心尽力与我们共同敬拜？


Or is it a way to show respect for our military veterans and to demonstrate appropriate patriotism for our nation?

抑或这样做表达了我们对于退役军人的尊重，以及展示了我们恰如其分的爱国主义？

I am coming into a pastoral position in my church, where we’ve had multiple American flags up front for decades. 

我即将在我们教会担任教职，在那里，几十年来一直有在前面悬挂多面美国国旗的习惯。

I’m trying to think through how to handle that, and if it is something I should think about changing in the next few years. Thank you for your ministry and your time.

—Jeremy

我正在努力考虑如何处理这个问题，并考虑是否将其列入未来几年内需要改变的事情之一。感谢你的事工和你为此花费的时间。

-杰里米


Dear Jeremy,

“Yes” to everything you asked. Yes, flags in our church buildings risk obscuring the gospel. Yes, they risk hindering the ability of foreigners to feel welcome. 

亲爱的杰里米：

对于你所问的一切，我的答案都为 "是"。是的，我们教会建筑中的国旗有可能遮盖福音。是的，它们有可能阻碍外国人感受到我们的欢迎态度。


Yes, they show respect to veterans. I guess I’m not sure about demonstrating an appropriate patriotism. Probably not, I’d say.

是的，这样做表达了对退伍军人的尊重。至于是否展现了恰如其分的爱国主义，我不确定，我想说，答案可能是否定的。

What all that means is, get rid of the flags if you can, but don’t divide the church over it. When and how do you remove the flags without dividing the church? I have no idea. That’s up to you to know the people, knowing how to proceed carefully and wisely.

以上意味着，如果可行，把旗子拿掉，但不要因此而分裂教会。在不分裂教会的前提下，何时以及如何拿掉旗子？我不知道。这要看你是否了解会众，知道如何谨慎而智慧地行事。

But here’s what you want to teach. The Old Covenant established a national people. The New Covenant, however, deliberately, intentionally, explicitly, decidedly, and unquestionably established a non-national or international people. For example, see Matthew 3:9, 8:11–12, and 28:18–20 or passages like Isaiah 19:23–25 and 49:6. 

但是，以下是你想要教导会众的：旧约是神与以色列一族立约，而新约却主动地、有意地、明确地、决定性地、不容置疑地与不分种族的或国际化的万民立约。例如：马太福音3:9、8:11-12、28:18-20，或以赛亚书19:23-25和49:6等经文。

Why would we do anything to risk confusing national identity with Christian identity? Isn’t that moving backward in redemptive history?

我们为什么冒险把一个人的国籍身份与基督徒的身份混淆呢？这岂不是神救赎计划的历史大倒退吗？

Help your congregation to understand that you have more in common spiritually with Nigerian and Japanese and Argentine believers than you do with unbelieving Americans. So, why would we want to put the stumbling block of American identity in front of these other believers (or foreign unbelievers with whom you’re sharing the gospel)? 

要帮助你的会众明白，你们与尼日利亚、日本、阿根廷的基督徒在属灵上的共同点多过你们未信的美国同胞。那么，我们为什么要把美国人身份这块绊脚石放在其他信徒面前，或者你们正在[url=][/url]传福音的外国未信者面前呢？


Doesn’t Paul concretely illustrate this kind of nation-identifying flexibility for the sake of the gospel, willing to be a Jew to Jews and a Gentile to Gentiles (1 Cor. 9:19–21)?

保罗不是具体地演示过这种民族认同的灵活性吗？为了福音的缘故，他愿意在犹太人面前做犹太人，在外邦人面前做外邦人（林前9：19-21）。

Mind you, this is a very hard lesson for many American Christians to understand. Since John Winthrop’s 1630 “city on the hill” sermon, Americans have tended to conflate nation and church. And the instinct remains alive and well, particularly among older generations. 

请注意，对于许多美国基督徒来说，这是一个非常难以理解的一课。自从约翰·温斯洛普1630年做了《山上的城》这篇布道以来，美国人倾向于把国家和教会混为一谈。如今，这种本能仍然存在，特别是在老一代基督徒中。

Be patient with such sheep. Don’t force it down their throats. Are they trusting Jesus, in spite of inconsistencies in how they put nation and church together? Then they are his sheep, and you can afford to be slow and tender, even as the good shepherd has been slow and tender with you (and me).

对这样的羊要耐心一点，不要把观点强加于人。不管他们对于政教关系的理解多么不一致，重要的是他们信不信耶稣？只要信，他们就是主的羊，你要舍得投入时间和温柔在他们身上，就像好牧人舍得在我们身上投入时间和温柔一样。

Having a flag in the room may be foolish, but I’m not sure it’s sin. So remove it when you can, but don’t shed too much blood over it.

教堂的室内挂旗是挺傻的，但是不是罪，我不确定。所以，当你有能力的时候，拿掉它，但不要为了它而刺刀见红。

作者：乔纳森-利曼

By Jonathan Leeman

原链接：
https://www.9marks.org/mailbag/52/