####写作灵感，学习川普的推特艺术

川普不愧是一个民间语言大师，利用推特发布执政纲领和策略，在140个字母的限制下，还能游刃有余，应该向他学习。

Countries charge U.S. companies taxes or tariffs while the U.S. charges them nothing or little.We should charge them SAME as they charge us!

We must keep "evil" out of our country!

A new radical Islamic terrorist has just attacked in Louvre Museum in Paris. Tourists were locked down. France on edge again. GET SMART U.S.

Professional anarchists, thugs and paid protesters are proving the point of the millions of people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

Meeting with biggest business leaders this morning. Good jobs are coming back to U.S., health care and tax bills are being crafted NOW!

Thank you to Prime Minister of Australia for telling the truth about our very civil conversation that FAKE NEWS media lied about. Very nice!

Iran is playing with fire - they don't appreciate how "kind" President Obama was to them. Not me!

Yes, Arnold Schwarzenegger did a really bad job as Governor of California and even worse on the Apprentice...but at least he tried hard!

Iran was on its last legs and ready to collapse until the U.S. came along and gave it a life-line in the form of the Iran Deal: $150 billion

Iran has been formally PUT ON NOTICE for firing a ballistic missile.Should have been thankful for the terrible deal the U.S. made with them!

Attending Chief Ryan Owens' Dignified Transfer yesterday with my daughter Ivanka was my great honor. To a great and brave man - thank you!

Congratulations to Rex Tillerson on being sworn in as our new Secretary of State. He will be a star!

If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view - NO FEDERAL FUNDS?

Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!

Iran is rapidly taking over more and more of Iraq even after the U.S. has squandered three trillion dollars there. Obvious long ago!

Everybody is arguing whether or not it is a BAN. Call it what you want, it is about keeping bad people (with bad intentions) out of country!

Hope you like my nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the United States Supreme Court. He is a good and brilliant man, respected by all.

Getting ready to deliver a VERY IMPORTANT DECISION!  8:00 P.M.

-----

以上截至到2月1日

China's corporate espionage is a continued threat to the American economy. With the right leadership, it can be stopped.
1:16 AM - 26 Aug 2011

@BarackObama has a record low 39% Gallup approval rating. Why so high?
11:40 PM - 17 Aug 2011
		
China is a threat to America. They are not our friend.
3:53 AM - 16 Aug 2011

@BarackObama played golf yesterday. Now he heads to a 10 day vacation in Martha's Vineyard. Nice work ethic.
1:36 AM - 16 Aug 2011