

Factory women
Girl power
As the supply of female factory-workers dwindles, blue-collar women gain clout

China
May 11th 2013 edition


May 11th 2013
SHENZHEN

Give this article
SITTING around a restaurant table, six workers discuss the progress of their labour action. Five of them are women, as are most of their several hundred colleagues who have been occupying the toy factory since mid-April. They have been sleeping on floors, braving rats and mosquitoes, to stop the owner shutting down the factory without giving them fair compensation. Those at the table are all migrants from the countryside. A couple are tearful. All are angry and determined not to give way.

In Guangdong province, where nearly 30% of China’s exports are made, women usually far outnumber men on labour-intensive production lines such as those at the toy factory in the city of Shenzhen, next to Hong Kong. Rural women are hired for their supposed docility, nimble fingers and attention to mind-numbing detail.


But in recent years Guangdong’s workforce has changed. The supply of cheap unskilled labour, once seemingly limitless, has started to dry up. Factory bosses are now all but begging their female workers to remain. At the same time the women who have migrated to the factory towns have become better-educated and more aware of their rights. In labour-intensive factories, stereotypes of female passivity are beginning to break down.

Over the past three decades the migration of tens of millions of women from the countryside to factories in Guangdong and other coastal provinces has helped to transform the worldview of an especially downtrodden sector of Chinese society (the suicide rate among rural women is far higher than for rural men). Conditions in the factories have often been harsh—poor safety, illegally long working hours, cramped accommodation, few breaks and little leave—but for many it has also been liberating and empowering, both personally and financially. Leslie Chang, an American journalist, spent three years reporting on women workers in Dongguan, a city near Shenzhen. In her 2008 book “Factory Girls” Ms Chang wrote that, compared with men, the women she encountered were “more motivated to improve themselves and more likely to value migration for its life-changing possibilities.”

They are still not as well-educated as men (about a year less in school on average, with most having only primary- or junior secondary-school education). But the gap has been narrowing.

Crucially, China’s changing demography has been shifting in their favour. Labour shortages that began to hit low-skilled manufacturing in the second half of the past decade have driven up wages and forced factories to improve working conditions. Once all but unthinkable (for both sexes), strikes have become increasingly common. Anecdotally at least, women appear as likely to take part as men.

Strikes in 2010 affecting factories in Guangdong owned by Honda, a Japanese car firm, helped to galvanise labour activism. One of them occurred in the city of Zhongshan, where the workers were mostly female. The unrest there resulted in pay concessions and set a precedent for collective bargaining led by representatives chosen by the workers themselves, rather than government-controlled trade unions. At the Shenzhen toy factory, the workers have chosen five representatives to negotiate with management. Three of them are women. A male worker says the women are more aware of their rights.

China Labour Bulletin, a Hong Kong-based NGO, reported on March 19th that about a fifth of strikes in Guangdong since the beginning of the year had been in factories and other workplaces with largely female staff. It said that women were also “some of the most active workers posting information online about strikes and protests, and in seeking out legal assistance for problems at work.” The protesting toy-workers offer evidence of this. They have posted photographs on microblogs of protesting female workers clad in red jackets opposite lines of police. One of their slogans reads: “Bad boss—give us back our youth”.

Wiggle room for NGOs
Guangdong is a little more forgiving of protest than many other parts of the country, but still not that tolerant. In July the authorities relaxed controls on the registration of NGOs. But those involved in labour issues rarely get official approval, apparently because of fears that they might help organise strikes. Only a handful of such groups in the province is openly engaged in work to help the female labour force. The leader of one, who asked that she and her organisation not be named, is herself a former migrant worker. She and a few dozen volunteers (mostly women from factories) give advice on collective bargaining. They recently helped some 60 female workers at a jewellery factory secure better severance pay. Negotiations took just a week. She says it would have been “very difficult” to achieve that through government channels.

In the coming years Guangdong’s industrial transformation is likely to even out the sex ratio in some cities where it has been skewed towards women. In the township where the NGO works, there are about 30,000 female workers and few men. But the group’s leader says this is changing fast as labour-intensive manufacturing moves out and gives way to an emerging logistics hub. Dongguan, a city once highly unusual in China for having many more women than men, had a male majority by 2010.

So desperate have some factories become for cheap labour that they are allowing men to work on production lines once exclusively reserved for women. But this does not mean China’s factory women are giving up and going home. The toy workers, many of them in their 30s or 40s, who have been working at the factory since it opened some 20 years ago, are typical of their generation of migrants. They have become urban and their children know nothing else. “We can’t plant fields now”, says one. No, agrees another, “We can’t go back”.

Recommended
ASIA
A boycott by bureaucrats is undermining the coup in Myanmar

LEADERS
Only 7% of urban Indian women have paid jobs

BUSINESS
Unions take on Amazon and Alphabet. Big tech watch out

This article appeared in the China section of the print edition under the headline "Girl power"



工厂女性
女孩的力量
随着工厂女工的供应减少，蓝领女性获得了影响力

中国
2013年5月11日版


2013年5月11日
深圳

发表此文
六名工人围坐在一张餐馆的桌子旁，讨论他们的劳工行动的进展。他们中的五人是女性，他们的几百名同事中的大多数也是女性，他们自4月中旬以来一直占领着这家玩具厂。他们一直睡在地板上，冒着老鼠和蚊子，以阻止厂主在不给他们公平补偿的情况下关闭工厂。桌边的人都是来自农村的移民。一对夫妇泪流满面。所有的人都很愤怒，决心不让步。

在广东省，中国近30%的出口产品都是在这里生产的，在劳动密集型的生产线上，女性的人数通常远远超过男性，例如在香港旁边的深圳市的玩具厂。农村妇女因其所谓的温顺、灵活的手指和对令人头疼的细节的关注而被雇用。


但是近年来，广东的劳动力发生了变化。曾经看似无限的廉价非熟练劳动力的供应已经开始枯竭。工厂老板们现在都在恳求他们的女工留下来。同时，移居到工厂镇的妇女也变得更有教养，更了解自己的权利。在劳动密集型工厂，女性被动的陈规定型观念开始被打破。

在过去的30年里，数以千万计的妇女从农村迁移到广东和其他沿海省份的工厂，帮助改变了中国社会中一个特别贫困的阶层的世界观（农村妇女的自杀率远远高于农村男性）。工厂的条件往往很恶劣--安全条件差，非法工作时间长，住房狭窄，休息时间少，假期少，但对许多人来说，这也是一种解放，是个人和经济上的权力。美国记者Leslie Chang花了三年时间报道深圳附近城市东莞的女工情况。在她2008年出版的《工厂女孩》一书中，张女士写道，与男性相比，她遇到的女性 "更有动力改善自己，更有可能因为移民改变生活的可能性而重视移民。"

她们的教育程度仍然不如男性（平均少上一年学，大多数人只有小学或初中教育）。但是这个差距一直在缩小。

最重要的是，中国不断变化的人口结构一直在向有利于他们的方向转变。在过去十年的后半段，劳动力短缺开始冲击低技能制造业，推动了工资上涨，迫使工厂改善工作条件。罢工曾经几乎是不可想象的（对男女而言），现在变得越来越普遍。至少从轶事来看，女性似乎和男性一样有可能参加。

2010年影响日本汽车公司本田在广东的工厂的罢工，帮助激发了劳工活动。其中一次发生在中山市，那里的工人大多是女性。那里的骚乱导致了工资的减免，并开创了由工人自己选择的代表而不是政府控制的工会领导集体谈判的先例。在深圳玩具厂，工人们选择了五名代表与管理层进行谈判。其中三位是女性。一名男性工人说，女性更了解自己的权利。

总部设在香港的非政府组织《中国劳工通讯》3月19日报道，自今年年初以来，广东约有五分之一的罢工发生在工厂和其他主要由女性员工组成的工作场所。它说，女性也是 "一些最积极的工人，她们在网上发布有关罢工和抗议的信息，并为工作中的问题寻求法律援助。" 抗议的玩具工人们提供了这方面的证据。他们在微博上发布了身穿红色夹克的抗议女工的照片，与警察相对。他们的一个口号是 "坏老板--把我们的青春还给我们"。

非政府组织的回旋余地
与中国其他地区相比，广东对抗议活动的宽容度要高一些，但仍然不那么宽容。7月，当局放松了对非政府组织注册的控制。但那些涉及劳工问题的组织很少得到官方批准，显然是因为担心它们可能会帮助组织罢工。在该省，只有少数此类团体公开从事帮助女性劳动力的工作。其中一个团体的领导人要求不透露她和她的组织的名字，她本人就是一名前农民工。她和几十名志愿者（大部分是来自工厂的妇女）提供集体谈判方面的建议。最近，他们帮助一家珠宝厂的约60名女工获得了更好的解雇费。谈判只花了一个星期。她说，通过政府渠道实现这一目标是 "非常困难的"。

在未来几年里，广东的工业转型可能会使一些城市的性别比例趋于平衡，因为那里的性别比例一直向女性倾斜。在该非政府组织工作的乡镇，大约有30,000名女工，男性很少。但该组织的领导人说，随着劳动密集型制造业的转移，这种情况正在迅速改变，并让位于一个新兴的物流中心。东莞这个城市曾经因为女性多于男性而在中国非常罕见，但到2010年，男性占了大多数。

一些工厂对廉价劳动力的需求如此迫切，以至于他们允许男性在曾经只为女性保留的生产线上工作。但是，这并不意味着中国工厂的女性会放弃并回家。这些玩具工人，很多都是30多岁或40多岁的人，自20年前工厂开业以来一直在工厂工作，是他们这一代移民的典型。他们已经成为城市人，他们的孩子对其他事物一无所知。一个人说："我们现在不能种地了"。不，另一位同意，"我们不能回去"。

建议
亚洲
官僚们的抵制行为正在破坏缅甸的政变

领导人
只有7%的印度城市女性拥有有偿工作

商业
工会向亚马逊和Alphabet发起挑战。大科技公司要小心了

这篇文章出现在印刷版的中国部分，标题是 "女孩的力量"