鲍里斯-叶利钦

俄罗斯第一任总统鲍里斯-叶利钦于4月23日去世，享年76岁

2007年4月26日

当他的母亲把他从乌拉尔地区的一个小村庄的洗礼池里舀出来时，他几乎已经死了。当地的牧师被快乐的父母灌了一上午的酒，把婴儿浸泡在水中，然后把他忘了。这个男孩活了下来，被命名为鲍里斯，一个战士。

这个故事可能是个传说，但逆境求生是鲍里斯-叶利钦生活中的一个常态。他在拆除手榴弹时差点丧命；他在飞驰的火车顶上与罪犯打牌；他差点被顽固的共产党人夺去生命。但他就像俄罗斯童话故事中的某个人物一样，总是能挺过来。

他也在苏联的实验中幸存下来，这个实验希望创造一个新的人，并根除一切人性和自然。此外，他还结束了这一实验和它背后的制度。虽然叶利钦先生是一名共产党员，但他从未变成苏维埃人；他保留了一个俄罗斯人的品质和情感。正如亚历山大-索尔仁尼琴所说，他几乎太俄罗斯了。他是自发的、反复无常的、经常喝醉的、有才华的、真诚的、机智的、心胸宽广的。他作为一个人物的巨大魅力与他的国家的变化规模相匹配。

相关项目

俄罗斯。叶利钦的时刻 2007年4月26日

鲍里斯-叶利钦之后的俄罗斯。鳄鱼的眼泪 2007年4月26日

在俄罗斯的外交官们。与叶利钦并肩作战 2002年6月27日

叶利钦先生在危机中茁壮成长，在事情正常的时候显得很无聊。指导他的是直觉，而不是理性。他对俄罗斯有着深厚的信心，并试图鼓励其最好的冲动；但他也知道其黑暗的一面，因为他的个人历史就是他的国家的历史。在斯大林的集体化政策下，他的祖父被宣布为库拉克--一个富农，被剥夺了财产并被判处强制劳动。他的父亲在古拉格监狱呆了三年，叶利钦先生对这一事实隐瞒了30多年。全家被赶出土地，住进兵营，那里的羊是唯一的热源。在那里，他与其他20个家庭一起长大，每个房间有一个，只有一个厕所。

他相信自由，拒绝共产主义，不是因为他是一个自由主义者，而是因为他觉得自由是人类本性的一部分。他对斯大林主义的仇恨是本能的，而不是智力的。他一口气骂了法西斯主义和斯大林主义，中间连个逗号都没加。

当时任苏联总统的戈尔巴乔夫在20世纪80年代中期推出改革开放和开放政策时，叶利钦先生--当时的莫斯科党魁--全心全意地接受了它们。但戈尔巴乔夫先生希望进行渐进式改革。叶利钦先生则没有那么多的耐心。他很早就感觉到这个系统是注定要失败的，于是在1987年与苏联的权力结构决裂，公开批评戈尔巴乔夫先生，并因此丢了脸，被解雇。四年后，令所有人惊讶的是，他卷土重来--这次是作为俄罗斯的第一位民选总统，当时还是苏联15个共和国之一。

一张照片吸引了全世界。叶利钦先生站在坦克顶上，反对1991年的共产主义政变，他富有魅力、勇敢、挑衅。后来还出现了一些更黑暗的画面：一个臃肿、醉醺醺的形象，在柏林的公开仪式上抓着指挥棒，或者在国家招待会上对女士们大呼小叫。但在1991年8月，俄罗斯团结起来支持它的总统。人们对叶利钦的爱是其他俄罗斯领导人所没有的--毫无顾忌。他们也会恨他，在困难的时候，毫无畏惧。他们认为他是个人，因为他是他们中的一员。

折断共产主义的脖子

他所继承的国家几乎没有国家的特征：没有正常运转的机构，没有钱，商店里没有食物，最糟糕的是，人民被洗脑。他身边的年轻改革者，年龄只有他的一半，知识却比他多一倍，他们开始拆除已经腐烂到核心的计划经济。

对于数百万俄罗斯人来说，叶利钦先生在1992年的价格自由化--而不是苏联的破产--似乎使他们陷入了贫困。他拒绝退缩。与戈尔巴乔夫先生不同，他并不想改革共产主义制度。他想扭断它的脖子。他的大规模私有化，破坏了政权的基础，也创造了强盗大亨，共产主义的反击从未远离过。1993年，武装的共产党员和法西斯分子试图推翻叶利钦先生的政府；他炮击了敌对的议会。1996年，共产党人几乎赢得了总统选举；通过扭曲规则，他拯救了自己和他的国家。

内战和饥饿得以避免，但叶利钦先生的妥协使独裁主义得以恢复。他错过了解散克格勃的机会，并让腐败和裙带关系滋生。1994年，他犯了一个最严重的错误，同意入侵车臣，引发了一场冲突，至今仍给他的国家带来了创伤、退化和危险。

最不寻常的是，他承认了这些错误。当他在俄罗斯历史上第一次自愿将权力交给他（亲自挑选的）继任者时，他向他的人民道歉--事实上，他们从未像他那样为自由而努力奋斗。

我请你们原谅我没有实现那些人的希望，他们相信我们能够从灰色的、停滞的、极权主义的过去一下子跳到一个光明的、丰富的和文明的未来。我自己也相信这一点。但这不可能一蹴而就......我离开了。我已经做了我能做的一切......在告别时，我想对你们每个人说以下的话。要快乐。你们应该得到幸福。你应该得到幸福和和平。

Boris Yeltsin
Boris Yeltsin, Russia's first president, died on April 23rd, aged 76
Apr 26th 2007

HE was almost dead when his mother scooped him out of the baptismal font in a small village in the Urals. The local priest, plied with liquor all morning by happy parents, had dunked the baby in the water and forgotten him. The boy survived and was christened Boris, a fighter.
The story may be legend, but survival against the odds was a constant in Boris Yeltsin's life. He nearly killed himself dismantling a grenade; he played cards with criminals on the roofs of speeding trains; he almost lost his life to diehard Communists. But like some character from a Russian fairy tale, he always came through.
He survived, too, the Soviet experiment that hoped to create a new man and to root out everything human and natural. Moreover, it fell to him to end this experiment and the system that lay behind it. Though Mr Yeltsin was a Communist Party boss, he never turned into Homo sovieticus; he preserved the qualities and sensibilities of a Russian man. As Alexander Solzhenitsyn put it, he was almost too Russian. He was spontaneous, erratic, frequently drunk, talented, sincere, witty, full-hearted. His hugeness as a character matched the scale of the changes in his country.
Related items
		Russia: Yeltsin's moment Apr 26th 2007 
		Russia after Boris Yeltsin: Crocodile tears Apr 26th 2007 
		Diplomats in Russia: Side by side with Yeltsin Jun 27th 2002 
Mr Yeltsin thrived on crises, seeming bored when things were normal. Gut instinct, rather than reason, guided him. He had profound faith in Russia and tried to encourage its best impulses; but he also knew its darker side, for his personal history was his country's. Under Stalin's collectivisation his grandfather was pronounced a kulak—a rich peasant—stripped of his possessions and sentenced to forced labour. His father spent three years in the gulag, a fact which Mr Yeltsin concealed for over 30 years. The family was driven off its land and into barracks where a goat was the only source of heat. There he grew up with 20 other families, one to each room and with a single lavatory.
He believed in freedom and rejected communism not because he was a libertarian, but because he felt freedom was part of human nature. His hatred of Stalinism was instinctive, not intellectual. He cursed fascism and Stalinism in the same breath, without putting so much as a comma between them.
When Mikhail Gorbachev, then the Soviet president, launched perestroika and glasnost in the mid-1980s, Mr Yeltsin—then the party boss in Moscow—embraced them wholeheartedly. But Mr Gorbachev wanted gradual reform. Mr Yeltsin had less patience. Sensing early that the system was doomed, he broke with the Soviet power structure in 1987, publicly criticised Mr Gorbachev, was disgraced and fired. Four years later, to everyone's astonishment, he stormed back—this time as the first democratically elected president of Russia, then still one of 15 Soviet republics.
One picture captivated the world: Mr Yeltsin on top of a tank, opposing the communist coup in 1991, charismatic, brave, defiant. Later there would be darker images: a bloated, inebriated figure who grabbed a conductor's baton at a public ceremony in Berlin, or goosed the ladies at state receptions. But in August 1991 Russia rallied behind its president. People loved Yeltsin like no other Russian leader—without fear. They would hate him too, when times got tough, without fear. They took him personally, for he was one of them.
 
Breaking communism's neck
The country he inherited had few features of a state: no functioning institutions, no money, no food in the shops and, worst of all, a brainwashed people. He surrounded himself with young reformers, half his age and with twice his knowledge, who began to dismantle a planned economy that was rotten to the core.
For millions of Russians, it seemed that Mr Yeltsin's liberalisation of prices in 1992—not the bankruptcy of the Soviet Union—had plunged them into poverty. He refused to back off. Unlike Mr Gorbachev, he did not want to reform the communist system. He wanted to break its neck. His mass privatisation, which destroyed the basis of the regime, created robber barons too, and a communist backlash was never far away. In 1993 armed communists and fascists tried to overthrow Mr Yeltsin's government; he shelled the hostile parliament. In 1996 communists almost won the presidential elections; by twisting the rules, he saved himself and his country.
Civil war and hunger were averted, but Mr Yeltsin's compromises allowed authoritarianism to revive. He missed his chance to dismantle the KGB, and let corruption and nepotism thrive. In 1994, his worst mistake, he agreed to invade Chechnya, starting a conflict that still scars, degrades and endangers his country.
Most unusually, he admitted those mistakes. When, for the first time in Russian history, he voluntarily handed power to his (handpicked) successor, he apologised to his people—who, in truth, had never fought for freedom as hard as he had.
I ask you to forgive me for not fulfilling the hopes of those people who believed that we would be able to jump from the grey, stagnating, totalitarian past into a bright, rich and civilised future in one go. I myself believed in this. But it could not be done in one fell swoop...I am leaving. I have done everything I could...In saying farewell, I wish to say to each of you the following. Be happy. You deserve happiness. You deserve happiness and peace.