The daughter rose in the east
How China forged self-made female billionaires
Socialist egalitarianism isn’t the whole story

Business
May 18th 2019 edition


May 16th 2019
ZHUHAI

Give this article
Dong mingzhu is the most visible face of female enterprise in China. The 64-year-old boss of Gree, the world’s biggest maker of air-conditioners, is everywhere: in television ads, on billboards and, last year, in two places at once—jaywalking in the city of Ningbo while at Gree’s headquarters in Zhuhai (police cameras mistakenly captured her visage plastered on a bus).

Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

Ms Dong joined Gree as a door-to-door saleswoman in 1990, as a widow with an eight-year-old son. In 2012 she became its chairwoman. Although Gree has state roots, Ms Dong acts like a high-profile entrepreneur. Her life was the subject of a tv drama, and she has written two popular memoirs. Her steely, unglamorous image (a confessed penchant for skirts notwithstanding) inspires young women. Matters of gender bore her. Asked about her rise in a country run by men, she responds: “Men or women, few are up to the challenge.”

That may be so. But Ms Dong represents a generation of Chinese women who have climbed higher than their sisters in South Korea or Japan. Fully 51 of the 89 self-made female billionaires on this year’s Hurun Rich List, a Who’s Who of the ultra-wealthy, are Chinese—well above China’s 20% share of the world’s women. Relative to population (one for every 13.4m Chinese females), that is not far off America’s tally of 18 (one for every 9.1m). South Korea has one, Yoo Jung-hyun of Nexon, a gaming giant. Japan has none (Forbes reckons that Yoshiko Shinohara, who founded a temporary-staffing agency, became the first in 2017, aged 82). China’s include Wu Yajun, a property mogul with a $10bn fortune; Cheng Xue of Foshan Haitian Flavouring & Food Company, known as “the soy-sauce queen”; and Li Haiyan and Shu Ping, co-founders of Haidilao, a chain of hotpot restaurants. Ms Dong, with a net worth of 3bn yuan ($440m), does not make Hurun’s list.

Why have they done so well? If socialist egalitarianism—which encouraged, even required, women to work—were the whole story, you would expect many of them in the upper echelons of the Communist Party. In fact, just one sits on the 25-member Politburo. None has ever joined the inner sanctum of the Standing Committee.

Rosy for riveters
A likelier explanation is China’s manufacturing boom, which afforded women unprecedented opportunities. In 1968 Mao Zedong enjoined female labourers to hold up “half the sky”; by the 1980s their labour-force participation hovered around 80%. Britain’s then stood at 60%, and America’s lower still. India, with a similar gdp per person to China at the time, barely managed 30%. Many successful Chinese businesswomen rose from the factory floor. In 2015 Zhou Qunfei, an erstwhile migrant worker who went on to found Lens Technology, maker of screens for Apple, took the title of the world’s wealthiest self-made woman.


After the government expanded college attendance in 1999, women began to prop up more than half the educational firmament: they make up 56% of graduates, though only 87 girls are born for every 100 boys (the world’s most unbalanced sex ratio). According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, an index of startup activity, for ten men starting a business in China, eight women launch theirs.

All that ought to guarantee a steady supply of talent to follow in Ms Dong’s footsteps. But it may be stymied by a general slowdown in the pace of female progress, plus specific hurdles women face in the most promising avenue for today’s aspiring entrepreneurs: China’s internet sector.

Between 2010 and 2018 China dropped from 61st (among 134 countries) to 103rd (out of 149) in the World Economic Forum’s Gender Gap Report. Economic disparities between the sexes tend to narrow as countries grow richer. China’s have widened, as privatisations in the 1990s prompted a sharper decline in the number of women than of men in the urban workforce and as women moved into lower-paying service jobs. Relative to that of men, female participation has been flat or falling every year since 2009, to 69%, similar to Japan and below Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. Female wages, which were 17% below male wages in the early 1990s, are now 36% lower.

Chinese tech, meanwhile, has displayed a misogynistic streak. New female hires can be asked to pick a “husband”, “lover” and “brother” among male colleagues. China’s globalising giants cast themselves as progressive. Yet of 29 board members at the four biggest—Alibaba, Baidu, Tencent and jd.com—one is a woman. Last year Human Rights Watch, an ngo, reported that Alibaba produced a video of female employees who “love tech guys”, including one pole-dancing in hotpants. (Alibaba said it would conduct “stricter reviews” of recruitment ads.)

Investors, still predominantly male, openly admit that they are reluctant to fund female entrepreneurs who, they say, bow to pressure more easily than men do, observes Zhao Hejuan, creator of two news sites about the tech industry. In private, she says, male entrepreneurs speculate that pretty founders who got funded must have slept with the moneymen.

Ms Dong faced her share of misogyny early on. In her first book she recounts how saleswomen back then were expected to be young, pretty and hard-drinking. At first male clients turned her down. Compared with those days, she says, today’s youngsters grow up “in a honeypot”. Maybe. But future Ms Dongs have the right to feel bittersweet. A new Hurun list of 46 self-made billionaires under the age of 40 includes 16 Chinese founders, but just two—both of them wives in couples that launched internet platforms—are women.

Recommended
BRIEFING
China’s growing military confidence puts Taiwan at risk

LEADERS
Only 7% of urban Indian women have paid jobs

LEADERS
How to deal with China

This article appeared in the Business section of the print edition under the headline "The daughter rose in the East"

中国女企业家

女儿在东方崛起
中国是如何培养自食其力的女性亿万富翁的
社会主义的平等主义不是故事的全部

商业
2019年5月18日版


2019年5月16日
朱海

赠送此文
董明珠是中国女性企业中最引人注目的面孔。这位全球最大的空调制造商格力电器64岁的老板无处不在：电视广告、广告牌上，去年还同时出现在两个地方--在宁波市内乱走，而在珠海的格力总部（警方的摄像机误拍到她的脸贴在一辆公交车上）。

听听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

董明珠于1990年加入格力，成为一名上门推销员，当时她是个寡妇，有一个8岁的儿子。2012 年，她成为公司董事长。虽然格力的根基是国有企业，但董小姐的行为却像一个高调的企业家。她的生活是一部电视剧的主题，她还写了两本受欢迎的回忆录。她坚毅而不失光彩的形象（尽管她承认喜欢穿裙子）激励着年轻女性。性别问题让她感到厌烦。当被问及她在一个由男性管理的国家中的崛起时，她回答道。"不管是男人还是女人，很少有人能接受这个挑战。"

这也许是事实。但董小姐代表了一代中国女性，她们比韩国或日本的姐妹们爬得更高。在今年的《胡润百富榜》中，89位自立门户的女性亿万富翁中，有51位是中国人，远远高于中国在全球女性中20%的份额。相对于人口（每1340万中国女性有一位），这与美国的18位（每910万有一位）相差无几。韩国有一位，是游戏巨头Nexon公司的刘正贤（Yoo Jung-hyun）。日本没有一个（《福布斯》认为，创立了一家临时工作人员机构的筱原良子在2017年成为第一位，享年82岁）。中国的富豪包括拥有100亿美元财富的地产大亨吴亚军、有 "酱油女王 "之称的佛山海天调味食品公司的程雪，以及连锁火锅店海底捞的联合创始人李海燕和舒平。拥有30亿元人民币（4.4亿美元）净资产的董小姐没有进入胡润的名单。

为什么他们做得这么好？如果社会主义的平等主义--鼓励甚至要求妇女工作--是整个故事的全部，你会期望她们中有许多人进入共产党的上层。事实上，在由25名成员组成的政治局中，只有一名妇女。没有人进入过常委会的内部殿堂。

铆工的玫瑰色
一个更可能的解释是中国的制造业繁荣，它为妇女提供了前所未有的机会。1968年，毛泽东要求女工撑起 "半边天"；到1980年代，她们的劳动力参与率徘徊在80%左右。英国当时为60%，美国则更低。印度当时的人均GDP与中国相似，但也只能达到30%。许多成功的中国女商人从工厂车间升起。2015年，周群飞，一个曾经的农民工，后来创立了为苹果公司生产屏幕的朗讯科技，获得了世界上最富有的女企业家称号。


在1999年政府扩大大学入学率后，女性开始支撑起一半以上的教育苍穹：她们占毕业生的56%，尽管每100个男孩只有87个女孩出生（世界上最不平衡的性别比）。根据全球企业家精神监测，一个创业活动的指数，在中国，每10个男性创业，就有8个女性创业。

所有这些都应该保证有稳定的人才供应来追随董小姐的脚步。但是，女性进步的步伐普遍放缓，再加上女性在当今有抱负的企业家所面临的最有前途的途径中面临的具体障碍，可能会阻碍女性进步。中国的互联网行业。

2010年至2018年，中国在世界经济论坛的性别差距报告中从第61位（在134个国家中）下降到第103位（在149个国家中）。两性之间的经济差距往往会随着国家的富裕而缩小。中国的差距已经扩大，因为20世纪90年代的私有化促使城市劳动力中的女性人数比男性人数急剧下降，而且女性转而从事低薪服务工作。相对于男性而言，女性参与率自2009年以来每年都在持平或下降，达到69%，与日本相似，低于越南、柬埔寨和老挝。女性工资在20世纪90年代初比男性工资低17%，现在则低36%。

与此同时，中国的技术部门也表现出厌恶女性的倾向。新的女性雇员可能被要求在男性同事中挑选一个 "丈夫"、"情人 "和 "兄弟"。中国的全球化巨头将自己塑造成一个进步的国家。然而，在四个最大的公司--阿里巴巴、百度、腾讯和jd.com的29名董事会成员中，只有一名女性。去年，非政府组织 "人权观察 "报告说，阿里巴巴制作了一个 "爱科技男 "的女员工视频，其中包括一个穿着热裤跳钢管舞的女员工。阿里巴巴说它将对招聘广告进行 "更严格的审查"。

两家科技行业新闻网站的创建者赵何娟观察到，仍然以男性为主的投资者公开承认，他们不愿意资助女性企业家，因为他们说，女性企业家比男性更容易向压力低头。她说，在私下里，男性创业者会猜测，获得资助的漂亮创始人一定是和有钱人上过床。

董小姐在早期就面临着她的厌女症。在她的第一本书中，她讲述了当时的女销售员是如何被要求年轻、漂亮和酗酒的。起初，男性客户拒绝了她。她说，与当时相比，今天的年轻人是在 "蜜罐 "中长大的。也许吧。但未来的唐女士有权利感到苦乐参半。在胡润公布的46位40岁以下自主创业的亿万富翁名单中，有16位中国创始人，但只有两位--她们都是推出互联网平台的夫妻中的妻子--是女性。

推荐
简报
中国日益增长的军事信心使台湾处于危险之中

领袖人物
只有7%的印度城市女性拥有有偿工作

领导人物
如何与中国打交道

这篇文章出现在印刷版的商业部分，标题是 "东方的女儿升起"。