Preface: The Stone That Can Not Speak Is The Most Lovely

When you visit a Chinese garden court, the most interesting thing drawing your attention may be the rocks.

Look at those interestingly shaped rocks. They were carefully picked for the garden court. They're called scholars’ rocks because Chinese scholars like the way their shapes inspire new ideas. The most desirable ones usually have dramatic shapes, very craggy surfaces, and lots of holes. 

The most lovely thing about the stone may be what a Chinese poet--Li Yixun said in "Five Stones"in nearly one thousand years ago:

"I will put myself in the shape of the stone and live with it. I will look down and up and come to and fro. I do not know whether I am in the hills and valleys, or the hills and valleys are in me".

To me, the stone means a lot. It can depict the natural shape of mountains and peaks like the clouds striding in the sky; it can form a space where people can sit or lie down like fish swimming in the pool; it can bring people to the vast river and mountain reverie.

Lu You, one of my favorite poet also had a verse: “The Flower that understands smiles is also nosy; but the stone that can not speak is the most lovely. "

Even if the stone is silent, it does kindle people’s wild imagination. 

The Stone has two kinds of life: one is the material life, through the time of carving floating in the ground; the second is the life of arts, which is the painting and calligraphy, photography, and gardening. The first life is mortal, while the second is immortal.

As a landscape designer, I have photographed the gardens in the Southern China many times, but I could not find the right link to integrate them. 

This time I chose the craggy mountain in the the Southern Chinese gardens as the object of photography, and went all the way to photograph the reticence and tolerance of the stone. 

I hope that the visitors of all ages and backgrounds can enjoy this tranquil retreat and gain revealing insights into fundamental Chinese cultural concepts about art and nature, most importantly, see the "human" side of the stone - the expression and heart of the stone.
