The empress of reality television
China’s transgender Oprah
As an army colonel who became a woman, she exemplifies a society in flux

China
Feb 11th 2017 edition


Feb 11th 2017
BEIJING

Give this article
CHINA’S favourite chat-show host has had an extraordinary career. Jin Xing was the country’s most successful dancer before becoming a colonel in an army entertainment troupe. He won fame in America, where the New York Times called him “a Chinese genius”. He trained dancers in Brussels and Rome, before returning to China for a sex-change operation. As a woman, she resumed her career as a ballerina, set up the country’s first private ballet company, ran a bar in Beijing and married a German businessman.

In a conservative society where even homosexuality is frowned upon, let alone sex-reassignment, her life would seem to place Ms Jin well outside the stodgy mainstream of Chinese broadcasting (she is pictured at her home in Shanghai). Yet Ms Jin, who is 49, is the country’s most popular television judge. She began with a local version of “So You Think You Can Dance” and hit the jackpot with “The Jin Xing Show”, a variety and chat programme with an audience of around 100m. She has appeared with her husband on the Chinese version of “The Amazing Race”, in which couples race each other around the world. Her latest venture, “Chinese Dating”, is in its first season.


Ms Jin’s story reflects remarkable changes in Chinese society since her childhood. She joined the army at the age of nine and endured a training regime that, as she puts it, would count as child abuse in the West. During her surgery, an oxygen shortage damaged her left leg so badly that doctors thought she would be lucky to walk again. Gruelling retraining enabled her to resume dancing within a year.

Those struggles with adversity have helped Ms Jin win favour among older Chinese, a more conservative cohort that is also, surprisingly, her biggest fan base. Many of them, too, have suffered enormous hardship—during the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s, and the famine that followed the Great Leap Forward of the late 1950s, in which tens of millions died. Even those born after 1980—roughly half the population—know well what their elders endured.

Identity crises
The tension between Ms Jin’s persona as a patriotic Chinese, and the one she displays as a globetrotter with a foreign husband (in January she joined the global elite at the World Economic Forum in Davos), is one that is widely understood among her compatriots. They have become the world’s great travellers. Over 100m got visas for holidays abroad last year, more than the citizens of any other country. Ms Jin describes herself as having been “a little Chinese boy thirsting for the West”. She writes of dreaming about Coca-Cola and freedom in Paris, or surreptitiously reading porn magazines and cruising gay bars in Greenwich Village. In her memoir, “Shanghai Tango”, she says that in the gay communities of New York, she feels herself to be “a traveller in a foreign land twice over”—as a woman in a man’s body and as a Chinese person abroad (who happens to be, she might have added, ethnic Korean).

In Belgium she feels haunted by the Chinese words she sees on signs in the streets; their calls, she writes, “get louder and louder”. She looks at a Ming vase at a market in Brussels and feels “ashamed” of Chinese who live abroad and have “only contempt” for their ancestral heritage.

China has several cultural figures who are better known in the West than at home. Ms Jin could have been another. But she chose to return home for her sex-change surgery, at some personal risk since the procedure was almost unknown there. “I was born in China,” she says. “It is in China I must be reborn as a woman.”

Xi Jinping, China’s president, presents himself as a staunch defender of “traditional” Chinese culture, and warns of the danger of Western “infiltration”. His preferences were clear in a recent official directive, which calls for the protection of China’s “cultural security”. But like most of her compatriots, Ms Jin is happy to take what she wants from both China and the West.

On the face of it, she embodies everything that is untraditional. Her rejection of being a man flies in the face of Confucian culture. The television manner for which she is famous—a blunt, cut-the-crap sassiness—is the opposite of stereotypical feminine deference. Yet her life as a woman has not been a simple rebellion against convention. By adopting three children and marrying (albeit a foreigner), she created around herself what she calls “a real Chinese family”. The values she espouses are old-fashioned even in China. In her new dating game, the contestants may not choose a match without their families’ permission; indeed, it is the families who interview the contestants’ prospective partners—resulting in rampant sexism, with women being asked about children and men about money. This has been too much for some viewers; online commentators have slammed the format as chauvinist and “retro”. But Ms Jin’s popularity suggests many young people believe that tradition should not be discarded.

In her memoir, Ms Jin talks about two historical figures whom she calls role models. One is Sai Jinhua, a prostitute who became the mistress of the imperial envoy to Germany and used her knowledge of the language to save the Qing emperor from German troops sent to crush the Boxer Uprising in 1900. (Jealous officials jailed her for her pains.) Ms Jin notes approvingly how Sai “rebelled” against what had appeared to be her destiny as a pauper.

The other model, more surprisingly, is Jiang Qing (Madame Mao), one of the Cultural Revolution’s most reviled figures, who cheered on the Red Guards as they tortured and killed her enemies. Ms Jin calls her “full of charm and intelligence” and the creator of “major masterpieces” during that period (Jiang Qing oversaw the production of operas about the Communist Party’s early days). It is a sign of how much China is changing that its cast of heroines encompasses not only the heroic harlots and villainous empresses of the past, but also a transsexual conservative talk-show host.

Recommended
BRIEFING
China’s growing military confidence puts Taiwan at risk

CHINA
China thinks it can avoid Middle Eastern traps that caught America

CHINA
News of Chloé Zhao’s “Nomadland” Oscar win is censored in China

This article appeared in the China section of the print edition under the headline "China’s transgender Oprah"

电视真人秀的女主角
中国的变性人奥普拉
作为一名成为女性的陆军上校，她体现了一个正在变化中的社会。

中国
2017年2月11日版


2017年2月11日
北京

发表此文
中国最受欢迎的聊天节目主持人有一个不寻常的职业生涯。金星在成为一个军队娱乐团的上校之前，是中国最成功的舞蹈家。他在美国赢得了声誉，《纽约时报》称他是 "中国的天才"。他在布鲁塞尔和罗马训练舞者，然后回到中国做了变性手术。作为一个女人，她恢复了芭蕾舞演员的职业，成立了中国第一个私人芭蕾舞团，在北京经营一家酒吧，并与一位德国商人结婚。

在一个保守的社会里，连同性恋都不被看好，更不用说变性了，她的生活似乎使金女士远远超出了中国广播业的呆板主流（图为她在上海家中的照片）。然而，49岁的金女士是中国最受欢迎的电视法官。她从本地版本的 "你以为你会跳舞 "开始，并通过 "金星秀 "获得了大奖，这是一档综艺和聊天节目，拥有约1亿观众。她与丈夫一起参加了中国版的 "极速前进"，在这个节目中，情侣们在世界各地互相比赛。她的最新尝试是 "中国式约会"，这是其第一季。


金女士的故事反映了自她童年以来中国社会的显著变化。她在9岁时参军，并忍受了一种训练制度，正如她所说，这种制度在西方会被算作虐待儿童。在她的手术过程中，由于氧气不足，她的左腿严重受损，医生认为她能重新走路就已经很幸运了。艰苦的再训练使她在一年内恢复了舞蹈。

这些在逆境中的挣扎帮助金女士赢得了老年中国人的青睐，这是一个比较保守的群体，令人惊讶的是，这也是她最大的粉丝基础。他们中的许多人也遭受了巨大的苦难--在20世纪60年代和70年代的文化大革命中，以及50年代末大跃进之后的饥荒中，有数千万人死亡。即使是1980年以后出生的人--约占人口的一半--也清楚地知道他们的长辈所承受的痛苦。

身份危机
金女士作为一个爱国的中国人，与她作为一个有外国丈夫的环球旅行者（1月份她在达沃斯世界经济论坛上加入了全球精英）之间的矛盾，在她的同胞中得到了广泛的理解。他们已经成为世界上伟大的旅行者。去年，超过1亿人获得了出国度假的签证，比任何其他国家的公民都要多。金女士形容自己曾是 "一个渴求西方的中国小男孩"。她写道，在巴黎梦想着可口可乐和自由，或者偷偷摸摸地阅读色情杂志，在格林威治村的同性恋酒吧里游荡。在她的回忆录《上海探戈》中，她说在纽约的同性恋社区，她觉得自己是 "一个在异国他乡的两次旅行者"--作为一个在男人身体里的女人和一个在国外的中国人（她可能会补充说，她是朝鲜族）。

在比利时，她感到被她在街上看到的中文字样所困扰；她写道，它们的呼声 "越来越大"。她看着布鲁塞尔市场上的一个明代花瓶，对生活在国外的中国人感到 "羞愧"，他们对祖先的遗产 "只有蔑视"。

中国有几个文化名人在西方比在国内更有名。金女士本可以成为另一位。但她选择了回国做变性手术，并冒着一定的个人风险，因为这种手术在中国几乎无人知晓。她说："我出生在中国，"她说。"在中国，我必须重生为一个女人。"

中国国家主席习近平以 "传统 "中国文化的坚定捍卫者自居，并对西方 "渗透 "的危险发出警告。他的偏好在最近的一项官方指令中很清楚，该指令呼吁保护中国的 "文化安全"。但像她的大多数同胞一样，金女士乐于从中国和西方获得她想要的东西。

从表面上看，她体现了一切非传统的东西。她拒绝成为一个男人，这与儒家文化背道而驰。她闻名于世的电视方式--直截了当的讽刺--与刻板印象中女性的恭顺相反。然而，她的女性生活并不是对传统的简单反叛。通过收养三个孩子和结婚（尽管是个外国人），她在自己身边创造了她所说的 "一个真正的中国家庭"。她所信奉的价值观即使在中国也是旧式的。在她的新约会游戏中，参赛者未经家人允许不得选择对象；事实上，是家人在面试参赛者的潜在伴侣--这导致了猖獗的性别歧视，女性被问及孩子，男性被问及金钱。这对一些观众来说太过分了；网上评论员抨击这种形式是沙文主义和 "复古"。但金女士的受欢迎程度表明，许多年轻人认为传统不应该被抛弃。

在她的回忆录中，金女士谈到了两个她称之为榜样的历史人物。一个是赛金花，她是一名妓女，成为帝国驻德国特使的情妇，并利用她的语言知识从1900年被派去镇压义和团的德国军队手中拯救了清朝皇帝。嫉妒的官员因她的痛苦而把她关进了监狱。）金女士赞许地指出，赛是如何 "反抗 "她作为一个穷光蛋的命运的。

另一个模型，更令人惊讶的是，是江青（毛夫人），文化大革命中最遭人唾弃的人物之一，她在红卫兵折磨和杀害她的敌人时为他们欢呼。金女士称她 "充满魅力和智慧"，是那个时期 "主要杰作 "的创造者（江青监督了有关共产党早期的歌剧的制作）。中国的女英雄阵容不仅包括过去的英雄妓女和恶毒的皇后，还包括一个变性的保守派脱口秀主持人，这表明中国正在发生多大的变化。

推荐
简报
中国日益增长的军事信心使台湾处于危险之中

中国
中国认为它可以避免陷入美国的中东陷阱

中国
赵薇 "游牧民族 "获得奥斯卡奖的消息在中国受到审查

本文出现在印刷版的中国部分，标题为 "中国的变性人奥普拉"

