
On writing and sweating
What to do about the novel in your head
Ernest Hemingway once said writing was like bleeding, which means that it either comes naturally or painfully

Books, arts and culture
Prospero


Jul 7th 2011
BY C.D. | BRUSSELS

Give this article

MANY of us have harboured a dream, deluded or otherwise, to write a book, a bestseller. These same people may then be familiar with the faint sound of a ticking time bomb when whiling away decent writing time at forgettable parties.

Ernest Hemingway once said writing was like bleeding, which means that it either comes naturally or painfully. Or both. A fellow journalist once told me that if you are not writing every day, then you are an amateur. I don't talk to him much anymore.

I do write every day, but not about the characters born in my imagination, who have accidentally killed a tramp or crashed a car, only to disappear into oblivion. I write about companies who decry regulation and calculate potential losses. I admit I used to blame these corporations for the fact that I hadn't published a novel yet.

But I recently dropped the grudge. There is a tried and tested way to stop the dilly-dallying. It does not involve buying more books about writing or seeking more matter-of-fact advice about what does and does not make a real writer. It involves reading your work to people who share your ambitions—or delusions. And the more they read your work, the more they help you to see that the characters you once thought would set readers on fire are in fact boring. What they need is more detail, more background, more consistency or perhaps a foil.

My writers' group is in Brussels, where I live. The works we discuss feature everything from Russian melodrama to middle-aged erotic fiction to sharp-witted existentialism. A story about a boy trying to divorce his dad within existing French law is a favourite. Another about a young nun coming of age is shaping up to be a corker. The agreement is that we go away and cut, clean, rewrite and return with fresh copy. The experience has reawakened senses I thought were lost to corporate journalism.

When I go to the pub, I observe the people differently, filing them away as possible inspiration for new characters. Last night I spoke to an American who boasted that his wife could land a plane better than "any man in Colorado". I took a good long look at his mouth, frozen in an open dumbfounded expression, eyes to the heavens as he sought more words to convey his wife's brilliance—an image that will surely be useful someday. "Writers know people," says Ann, a 70-year-old New Yorker and published author in the group. She repeats this often, her finger wagging in the air.

Like fellow soldiers in the trench, these writers have made tackling both my written and unwritten work less discouraging. "Be confident," Ann insists. The rest of us shrug, implicitly acknowledging a pervasive self-doubt. Still, we share the names and numbers of the publishers we know, and push on.


关于写作和流汗
如何对待你头脑中的小说
海明威曾经说过，写作就像流血，这意味着它要么是自然而然的，要么是痛苦的。

书籍、艺术和文化
普洛斯斐洛


2011年7月7日
作者：C.D. | 布鲁塞尔

给这篇文章

我们中的许多人都怀有一个梦想，不管是痴心妄想还是其他原因，都想写一本书，一本畅销书。然后，这些人可能会熟悉，当他们在忘我的聚会中消磨掉体面的写作时间时，会有一种微弱的定时炸弹的声音。

海明威（Ernest Hemingway）曾经说过，写作就像流血，这意味着它要么自然而然，要么痛苦地出现。或者两者都有。一位记者同行曾告诉我，如果你不是每天都在写作，那么你就是个业余爱好者。我现在不怎么和他说话了。

我确实每天都在写作，但不是写那些在我想象中诞生的人物，他们意外地杀死了一个流浪汉或撞坏了一辆车，然后消失在人们的视野中。我写的是那些抨击监管和计算潜在损失的公司。我承认我曾经把我还没有出版小说的事实怪罪于这些公司。

但我最近放弃了这种怨恨。有一个久经考验的方法来停止磨蹭。它不涉及购买更多关于写作的书籍，也不涉及寻求更多关于什么能成为或不能成为真正的作家的事实建议。它涉及到把你的作品读给那些与你有共同抱负或妄想的人听。他们读你的作品越多，就越能帮助你看到，你曾经认为会让读者着迷的人物其实很无聊。他们需要的是更多的细节，更多的背景，更多的一致性，或者也许是一个陪衬。

我的作家小组在布鲁塞尔，我住在那里。我们讨论的作品特点是，从俄罗斯情节剧到中年色情小说，再到尖锐的存在主义。一个关于一个男孩试图在法国现行法律范围内与他父亲离婚的故事是我最喜欢的。另一个关于一个年轻修女长大成人的故事也将成为一个亮点。我们的协议是，我们离开这里，进行切割、清洗、重写，然后带着新的稿件回来。这种经历唤醒了我的感觉，我以为在企业新闻工作中已经失去了这种感觉。

当我去酒吧时，我以不同的方式观察人们，把他们作为新角色的可能灵感归档。昨晚我和一个美国人谈话，他吹嘘说他的妻子比 "科罗拉多州的任何一个人 "都能更好地降落飞机。我仔细看了看他的嘴，他的表情僵住了，呆呆地望着天，因为他在寻找更多的词语来表达他妻子的聪明才智--这个形象有一天一定会有用。"作家了解人，"小组中70岁的纽约人、出版作家安说。她经常重复这句话，她的手指在空中晃动着。

就像战壕里的战友一样，这些作家让我在处理书面和非书面的工作时都不那么气馁。"要有信心，"安坚持说。我们其他人耸耸肩，含蓄地承认了普遍存在的自我怀疑。不过，我们还是分享了我们所知道的出版商的名字和号码，并继续努力。