
Fiction and social change
How “To Kill a Mockingbird” shaped race relations in America
Fiction can advance the gradual work of social change, and the effects of Harper Lee's beloved novel are still being felt.

Books, arts and culture
Prospero


Feb 22nd 2016
BY E.W.

Give this article

IN 1988 in Monroeville, Alabama, Ronda Morrison, the 18-year-old daughter of a respected local family, was found murdered in the town’s dry cleaning store. When the sheriff’s office failed to make an arrest after months of investigation, the community grew angry and started accusing the police of incompetence. Spurred by criticism, officials indicted Walter McMillian, a local black man whose affair with a white woman had become the subject of heated town discussion. In the absence of evidence, the State coerced witnesses into testifying against him. Their statements didn’t hold with the facts of the case, but that didn’t matter much. Neither did the testimony of three black witnesses who confirmed that Mr McMillian had been at a church fish fry at the time of the murder. He was convicted and sentenced to death; in fact, he had been held on death row before his trial had even begun.

Monroeville is best known as the hometown of Harper Lee and the setting of her 1960 novel, “To Kill a Mockingbird.” (It is renamed as “Maycomb” in her novel.) The town has claimed her for bragging rights ever since the book became a bestseller, which was almost instantly. Local leaders turned the courthouse into a “Mockingbird” museum. An acting troupe formed “The Mockingbird Players of Monroeville” to stage a theatre adaptation for tourists. More than just a marketing gimmick, the novel became a source of tremendous town pride. When Bryan Stevenson, a young Harvard Law graduate, visited Monroeville in 1989 to take up Mr McMillian’s appeal, he was struck by the “Mockingbird” fervour: “Have you read the book?” a clerk pressed him. “It’s a wonderful story. This is a famous place…When they made the movie, Gregory Peck came here”.


But for Mr Stevenson, Monroeville’s delight in its literary eminence had a sour taste. There were uncanny parallels between the McMillian case and the novel’s famous trial: white paranoia about interracial relations, the scapegoating of an innocent black man, a hasty conviction that flew in the face of evidence and common sense, and town authorities bent on execution. Had the town learned nothing from the novel it celebrated? In his memoir, “Just Mercy,” Mr Stevenson writes, “Sentimentality about Lee’s story grew even as the harder truths of the book took no root.”

Walter McMillian met a better fate than the fictional Tom Robinson; after six years on death row, the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals overturned his conviction. But the episode points to the strange barriers people sometimes erect between literature and real life. In writing Tom Robinson’s trial, Harper Lee actually drew on local Alabama cases in which black men were unjustly convicted and killed. Almost thirty years after the novel’s publication, however, Alabama and other states continued to condemn staggering numbers of black Americans in trials warped by racism and dishonesty.

Change has been slow to come to Monroeville, but this isn’t to say that Lee’s novel didn’t have a tremendous influence on race relations in America. It has been credited with fuelling the civil rights movement, much as “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” the anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe, fuelled the abolitionist movement of the 19th century. It brought the ugly realities of discrimination, especially in the South, to international attention. As a popular work of fiction by a white woman, it also invited readers to think about race in ways that political treatises or speeches could not.

Atticus Finch, the lawyer who defends Tom Robinson, became the inspiration for generations of justice crusaders. His model of peaceful but persistent resistance resonated with activists. In “Why We Can’t Wait,” Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote, “To the Negro in 1963, as to Atticus Finch, it had become obvious that nonviolence could symbolise the gold badge of heroism rather than the white feather of cowardice.”

In many ways, America is still feeling the influence of Lee’s novel today—in the national conversation about criminal justice, the “Black Lives Matter” movement, even President Barack Obama’s recent prison reforms. Last year saw a media frenzy surrounding the publication of “Go Set a Watchman,” an early version of “Mockingbird,” which it seems Lee never intended to publish. This is unfortunate, but it shouldn’t obscure the legacy of “To Kill a Mockingbird”. The novel remains a testament to the ways fiction can expose a society’s sins, alter consciousness, and advance the gradual work of social change.

Recommended
OBITUARY
Larry McMurtry died on March 25th

1843 MAGAZINE
Doing jigsaws with Ian Rankin

PROSPERO
Ernest Hemingway: the man, the myth, the legend


小说与社会变革
杀死一只知更鸟》如何塑造了美国的种族关系
小说可以推动社会变革的渐进工作，而哈珀-李这本受人喜爱的小说所产生的影响仍然存在。

书籍、艺术和文化
普罗斯佩罗


2016年2月22日
BY E.W.

给这篇文章

1988年在阿拉巴马州的门罗维尔，当地一个受人尊敬的家庭的18岁女儿朗达-莫里森被发现在镇上的干洗店被谋杀。当警长办公室在经过几个月的调查后未能进行逮捕时，社区变得愤怒并开始指责警察的无能。在批评的刺激下，官员们起诉了沃尔特-麦克米利安（Walter McMillian），这个当地的黑人男子与一名白人妇女的婚外情已经成为该镇激烈讨论的主题。在缺乏证据的情况下，政府胁迫证人对他进行作证。他们的陈述与案件的事实不符，但这并不重要。三名黑人证人的证词也不成立，他们证实麦克米利安先生在谋杀发生时正在教堂里吃鱼。他被定罪并被判处死刑；事实上，在审判开始之前，他就已经被关押在死囚牢房。

门罗维尔最著名的是哈珀-李的故乡，也是她1960年小说《杀死一只知更鸟》的背景。(在她的小说中，这里被重新命名为 "梅科姆"。)自从这本书成为畅销书以来，这个小镇就一直声称她有吹嘘的权利，这几乎是瞬间的事。当地领导人把法院变成了一个 "知更鸟 "博物馆。一个表演团成立了 "门罗维尔的知更鸟剧团"，为游客上演了一场戏剧。这部小说不仅仅是一个营销噱头，还成为一个巨大的城镇自豪感的来源。当年轻的哈佛大学法律系毕业生布莱恩-史蒂文森在1989年访问门罗维尔，接受麦克米利安先生的呼吁时，他被 "知更鸟 "的热情所震撼："你读过这本书吗？"一个职员向他询问。"这是个精彩的故事。这是一个著名的地方......当他们拍摄电影时，格雷戈里-派克来到了这里"。


但对史蒂文森先生来说，蒙罗维尔对其文学成就的喜悦有一种酸涩的味道。麦克米利安案和小说中著名的审判之间有着不可思议的相似之处：白人对种族间关系的偏执，将一个无辜的黑人作为替罪羊，草率的定罪违背了证据和常识，而镇当局则一心想要执行。难道该镇没有从它所颂扬的小说中吸取教训吗？史蒂文森先生在他的回忆录《公正的怜悯》中写道："对李的故事的感伤越来越多，即使书中更艰难的真相没有扎根。"

沃尔特-麦克米利安的命运比虚构的汤姆-罗宾逊要好；在死囚区呆了六年后，阿拉巴马州刑事上诉法院推翻了对他的定罪。但这一情节指出了人们有时在文学和现实生活之间设置的奇怪障碍。在写汤姆-罗宾逊的审判时，哈珀-李实际上借鉴了阿拉巴马州当地黑人被不公正地定罪和杀害的案例。然而，在小说出版近30年后，阿拉巴马州和其他州仍在种族主义和不诚实的审判中判处数量惊人的美国黑人。

门罗维尔的变化一直很缓慢，但这并不是说李的小说对美国的种族关系没有产生巨大的影响。它被认为推动了民权运动，就像哈里特-比彻-斯托的反奴隶制小说《汤姆叔叔的小屋》推动了19世纪的废奴主义运动。它使歧视的丑陋现实，特别是在南方，引起了国际社会的注意。作为一部由白人女性创作的流行小说，它还邀请读者以政治论文或演讲的方式思考种族问题。

为汤姆-罗宾逊辩护的律师阿提克斯-芬奇（Atticus Finch）成为几代正义斗士的灵感来源。他和平但坚持不懈的抵抗模式引起了活动家的共鸣。马丁-路德-金在《我们为什么不能等待》中写道："对1963年的黑人来说，就像对阿提克斯-芬奇一样，非暴力显然可以象征英雄主义的金色徽章，而不是懦弱的白色羽毛。"

在许多方面，美国今天仍然感受到李的小说的影响--关于刑事司法的全国性对话、"黑人生命至上 "运动，甚至巴拉克-奥巴马总统最近的监狱改革。去年，媒体围绕《去设置一个守望者》（Go Set a Watchman）的出版掀起了一阵狂潮，这是《知更鸟》的早期版本，李似乎从未打算出版。这是不幸的，但它不应该掩盖《杀死一只知更鸟》的遗产。这部小说仍然证明了小说可以揭露一个社会的罪恶，改变人们的意识，并推动社会变革的渐进工作。

推荐
讣告
拉里-麦克默特里于3月25日去世

1843年杂志
与伊恩-兰金一起做拼图游戏

プロスページ
欧内斯特-海明威：男人、神话、传奇
