 When Members Leave: How Pastors Can Guard Their Hearts

当成员离开，牧者们如何保守他们的心

DECEMBER 7, 2021  |  PHIL A. NEWTON
©
Lightstock
SHARE
TWEET
EMAIL

MORE BY PHIL A. NEWTON


After the presbytery of local pastors interviewed me for ordination, each member offered a word of counsel. Always preach the Word. Be a holy man. Someone else told me, “Don’t get close to your people.” While no one corrected him, the Holy Spirit set off alarm bells in my heart. His comment exposed his own raw nerves and wounds that cut deeply into his life, leaving him cynical about pastoral ministry. At the time, I was young, a long way from spiritual maturity, and hadn’t served as a lead pastor. But I knew I couldn’t shepherd people without having them in my heart.

在本地区会的长老们对我进行了按立前的面试之后，每个人都给了我一两句建议。要常常传讲神的道。成为一个圣洁的人。但是，也有人告诉我，“不要跟你的会众走得很近。”当时没人纠正他，但是圣灵在我心头敲响了警钟。他的评论揭示出他在生活中深藏的痛处或伤口被切开，让他对牧养事工愤世嫉俗。那时的我还很年轻，距离成熟还有很远的路程，也不是主任牧师。但我知道不能在牧养会众的时候，心里不装着他们。

One paradigm will not fit every church-and-pastor relationship. Personalities, interests, and styles, coupled with doctrine, methods, and change, sometimes unsettle the church atmosphere. Yet the Lord gives the appropriate prescription for each. It’s found in the ample “one another” passages, reminding us of the battle to maintain harmony and faithfulness in the local church. We’re all called to faithfully love, accept, encourage, and show kindness to one another (John 13:35; Rom. 15:7; 1 Thess. 5:11; Eph. 4:32).

一种模式不可能适合每一种教牧关系。个性、兴趣、风格，以及教义、方法和变动，有时都会扰动教会的氛围。但是，每一种情况上帝都给出了合适的处方。良方可以在那些丰富的含有“彼此”的经文段落中找到，这提醒我们要在地方教会中为维持和谐与忠心去打仗。我们蒙召是为了忠心的爱、彼此接纳、互相劝勉、各人向他人显出恩慈 (约 13:35; 罗 15:7; 帖前  5:11; 弗 4:32)。

Amid this, the Devil throws strained attitudes, disharmony, apathy, discontent, and a host of fiery darts (Eph. 6:10–20). Add the world’s influence, social media’s massive footprint among members to foment greener-pasture sentiments, low views of the church, even lower views of pastoral ministry, and the dangerous substitution of “online church,” and a recipe for discouragement is served. In this kind of atmosphere, Jesus Christ calls pastors to shepherd the flock (Acts 20:28; 1 Pet. 5:2). He added no caveats to “shepherd.”
在此期间，魔鬼会射出众多火箭，包括紧张的态度、失和、冷漠、以及不满(弗 6:10–20)。加上属世的影响、成员们在社交媒体上的足迹，都挑动着人们的情绪：向往更青的草地，看低现有的教会，甚至轻看牧者的牧养，用“在线教会”作为替代品，这些都成为应对灰心的食谱。在这种氛围中，耶稣基督呼召牧者们去牧养他的羊(徒 20:28; 彼前 5:2)。他没有在“牧养”前面添加警告语。（He added no caveats to “shepherd.” 这句实在难翻，有时候翻译得不好未必是译者的原因，而是原文东一句西一句，过于跳跃所致。—译注）

Over the years, I’ve experienced painful times of members departing. Some disagreed theologically. Others left simply because a friend left. Some preferred other churches’ ministries. Still others changed jobs and relocated elsewhere. Whatever the reason, people I loved and served, whose fellowship I enjoyed, with whom I had laughed and cried, left. At times they left in rapid succession; other times a dribble here and there. How could I keep giving my heart to people who might not stay?

这么多年来，我经历过成员离开的痛苦时刻。有一些是因为在神学上有不同看法，另一些人仅仅因为他们的朋友走了。有些人是因为更喜欢其他教会的事工，还有些人是因为更换了工作或住所。无论什么原因，那些我爱过和服事过的人，那些我享受过他们的团契的人，那些与我一同欢笑一同哭泣过的人，离开了。有时他们是接二连三走的，有时他们是星星点点走的。这让我如何才能把心给那些不愿意留下来的人呢？

Regain Equilibrium

When members leave, it’s easy to feel you’ve been spun in a centrifuge. You’re dizzy, wondering, hurting, at a loss. Yet Jesus called you to shepherd the flock he purchased by his own blood (Acts 20:28). Shepherding calls for close contact, ground-level exposure to the flock. You cannot shepherd them without being close to them. Yet being close to them may mean being hurt once again. Vulnerability accompanies pastoral ministry. Yes, you will be hurt—again. Sometimes it’s your closest friends who abandon you—I know about that personally and so does Jesus.

重新找到平衡点

当成员离开，你很容易感受到那种离心力。你因为失落而感到迷惘、纳闷、惊讶、受伤。依然耶稣呼召你牧养他用自己的宝血重价买来的羊(徒 20:28)。牧养需要近距离接触、把自己彻底暴露给羊群。接近他们可能意味着再次受伤。牧师的生涯与脆弱相随。你会再次被伤害。有时，你最亲密的朋友也弃你而去，我亲身尝过这种滋味，耶稣也尝过。

How could I keep giving my heart to pastor people who may not stay?

这让我如何才能把心给那些不愿意留下来的人呢？
 
How do you regain equilibrium? When the seventy put their joy in ministry success, Jesus told them not to rejoice in it, “but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.” Find your joy in Jesus, not in your ministry (Luke 10:17–20). If your joy is fixed on him, then even fickleness in the flock, although hurtful, will not daunt your courage to continue pastoring those under your charge. Keep your heart warmed on him.

你如何再次找到平衡点呢？当七十个人为事工的成功而欢喜，耶稣告诉他们，不要因这个就欢喜，“要因你们的名记录在天上欢喜。”要到基督里找喜乐，而不是到事工中去找（路10:17-20）。如果你把喜乐与他绑定，那么即使羊群中有不忠实的事，尽管商人，却不能打击你继续牧养那些留下来的羊群的勇气。让你的心在他身上保持温暖。

It’s the Lord’s Ministry; Don’t Lose Heart

这是主的事工；不要灰心丧胆

While we often use the personal pronoun “my” to refer to our ministries, they really belong to our Lord. Although Paul witnessed the pain of departures and opposition, he also spoke of ministry as being received from the Lord. He didn’t create it. Jesus did. For that reason, he could write, “We do not lose heart” (2 Cor. 4:1–6).

虽然我们经常说“我的”职份，实际上乃是我们的主的事工。尽管保罗见证了有人离开、有人反对的痛苦，他也说自己的职份是从主那里来的。不是他创立的，乃是耶稣所创立的。因为这个原因，他写道，“我们……就不丧胆”。(林后 4:1–6).

He did not lose heart because, despite difficulties and struggles, he knew God finds pleasure in the preaching of Jesus Christ’s gospel. In other words, Paul realized (maybe he struggled to reach this point) that ministry was not about him or his performance or even his comfort. It was about preaching Christ faithfully, then relying on the Lord to work and accomplish his redemptive purposes.

他没有丧胆是因为他知道，无论有多少困难和挣扎，神喜欢看到耶稣基督的福音被传扬。换句话说，保罗意识到（也许他努力达到了这个境界）这职份与他自己、他的表现、他的舒适无关。这个职份就是忠实地传扬基督，仰赖主的大能，完成他救赎的目标。

But what happens when some who’ve received the Word through our ministries leave? It may be through painful exits of those we’ve loved and invested our lives in that the Lord has a work to accomplish in us.

但是，假如那些通过我们的事工接受了真道的人离开，会怎么样呢？毕竟，我们爱他们，并且投入了自己生命的一部分来造就他们。答案是：也许通过这些人的离开，上帝要在我们身上完成他的工作。

One rash of departures showed me how much I wanted the congregation’s approval instead of the Lord’s. I needed that radical, inward change in disposition to endure long term in ministry. He may deepen dependence on him. He may teach us to love unconditionally. He may strip away vestiges of self-importance we didn’t realize lurked under the surface. He may order suffering so that we more faithfully empathize with those we shepherd.

一波成员的离开显示出我是多么希望获得会众的认可胜过主的认可。我需要这种彻底的、内在的性情改变，以便在事奉中长期坚持下去。他可能会加深我们对他的依赖。他可能会教会我们无条件的爱。他可能会除去我们没有意识到的潜伏在表面之下的残存的自大。他可能命令我们受苦，这样我们就与我们所牧养的人们一起更信实地感同身受。

It’s his ministry. Don’t lose heart. The Good Shepherd knows you.

这是他的事工。不要丧胆。好牧人了解你。

Serve the Flock Entrusted to You

服务那些信任你的羊群

The remaining members who didn’t leave need your attentive shepherding. You can become easily distracted by departures. Your mind can become paralyzed, absorbed with those who left, and unconsciously miss out on the joy of pastoring. The congregation suffers, too, from a less-than-focused pastor. When the multitudes left, Jesus did not blink (John 6). Even some numbered as his disciples left, grumbling in the process. Jesus relied on the Father’s sovereign purposes, even in the departures (John 6:65). Without hesitation or complaint, he kept shepherding those who remained.

那些留下来的成员需要你用心的牧养。你的注意力会被那些离去的人们所分散。你的大脑会变得麻痹，定睛在离开的人身上，不知不觉中错失了牧养所带来的喜悦。面对有些心不在焉的牧者，会众也受损。当众人离开时，耶稣眼睛都没有眨（约6）。甚至一些被称为他的门徒的人也离开了，他也没发一句怨言。耶稣仰赖天父的做主的目标，即使在有人离开时也是如此 (约 6:65)。 毫不犹豫，也没有怨尤，他继续牧养那些留下来的人。
 
I don’t minimize the pain of people leaving the church. Years ago, during a three-year period about 65 percent of our congregation left. It was hard. But I learned good lessons, and out of it, grew closer to those who remained. We picked up the pieces and moved ahead, much stronger in Christ, humbler about ministry, and more confident in the wise providence of the Lord. I learned to keep pastoring, keep giving myself to others in service, and keep trusting the Lord with the pains along the way.

我没有在缩小教会成员流失所带来的伤痛。数年前，我们的会众在三年里走了65%。很难令人接受。但我学到了很好的一课，并且跟留下来的人走得更近了。我们收拾残局，继续前行，在基督里更加坚强，事奉更加谦卑，在主智慧的供应中也更加有信心。我学会了，如何一路上带着伤痛，继续牧养，继续在事奉中给他人建议，继续全心依靠主。

Overlook Offenses

忽略冒犯

Just as we encourage our congregation members to be quick to overlook offenses, we must overlook them too (Prov. 19:11). Bitterness over those wounding you—intentionally or not—will only intensify. Instead, in love, you can cover the sins done to you (1 Pet. 4:8). As you do so, pray—not with imprecatory pleas but with grace.

正像我们勉励会众迅速地忽略人的冒犯行为，我们自己也要忽略(箴 19:11)。对于那些伤害你的人苦毒，无论有意还是无意，都会加剧怨恨。事实上，爱能遮掩加在你身上的一切过犯 (彼前 4:8)。当你这样做的时候，要祈祷，不是恳求要得到什么，而是施以恩惠。

I grew close to a brother who, along with his family, attended our church the day we began. He became a leader, encourager, and friend. He was the first church member to visit the hospital right after our fourth child’s birth. One day he came in to tell me he was leaving. His reason: “You know I like to be around successful things; and this is not successful. I’m leaving.”

我和一个弟兄走得很近，他和他的家庭自我们教会成立那天起就来参加。他成为一位教会领袖、一位劝勉者和一个好朋友。当我们第四个孩子出生的时候，他是第一个到医院探访的教会成员。有一天他告诉我他要离开了。理由是：“你知道，我喜欢跟成功的事物打交道；而这里不怎么成功。我走了。”

That was it. Ten years brushed off in a moment. God gave me the grace to forgive him and keep praying for him. In subsequent years, I’ve had opportunities to minister to his family. He’s reached out to encourage me. He had no biblical reason to leave. But he did. With that, I learned not to dwell on the past but press on with grace and kindness.

这就是他离开的理由。十年弹指一挥间。上帝给我恩典原谅他并一直为他祷告。在随后的几年里，我有机会事奉他的家人，他也曾伸出手来鼓励我。他的离开找不到圣经上的理由，但他那样做了。通过这件事，我学习到不要沉溺于背后的，而应以恩惠和仁慈去努力面前的。

None of these practices comes naturally. Instead, they overflow from learning to find our deepest satisfaction in Jesus. While much joy can be found in serving our church members, he far exceeds what a church member can give us. We can easily expect more from them than God intends us to receive.

以上这些做法都不会自然而然地发生。相反，当我们学会从耶稣身上找到最深的满足时，它们就会满溢而出。尽管，事奉教会能带来诸多喜乐，他所给予的远超过任何一个教会成员所给予的。我们很容易对他们期待过多，超过上帝让我们所期待的。

Shepherd the flock. Keep them in your heart. All the while, find that Jesus is enough.

牧养群羊，把他们放在你的心里。与此同时，要发现拥有耶稣已经足够。

Phil A. Newton (PhD, Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary) planted and has served as senior pastor of South Woods Baptist Church in Memphis, Tennessee, since 1987. Phil and his wife, Karen, have five children and six grandchildren. He is the author of several books, including 40 Questions About Pastoral Ministry, The Mentoring Church: How Pastors and Congregations Cultivate Leaders, Conduct Gospel-Centered Funerals (with Brian Croft), Elders in the Life of the Church (with Matt Schmucker), and Venture All for God: Piety in the Writings of John Bunyan (with Roger Duke and Drew Harris). He is an adjunct professor at Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary.

菲尔·牛顿（东南浸信会神学院PhD）,自1987年以来，参与田纳西孟菲斯的南部森林浸信会的植堂和事奉。他和妻子凯伦有五个孩子和六个孙子辈的后代。他的著作包括：《教牧问题四十问》《门训教会：牧者和会众如何培育领导人》《举办以教会为中心的葬礼》（与Brian Croft合著）《教会生活中的长老》（与Matt Schmucker合著） 《为神冒险：约翰班扬笔下的虔诚》（与 Roger Duke 、Drew Harris合著）。  他是东南浸信会神学院的兼职教授。