Netflix’s ‘Pray Away’ Seethes with Contempt for Christianity

AUGUST 6, 2021  |  BECKET COOK

《反同运动的前世今生》：一部充斥着对基督教鄙夷的网飞纪录片

2021年8月6日 | 贝克特·库克

Netflix’s latest original documentary, Pray Away—about the reparative therapy organization Exodus International—is yet another thinly veiled attack on Christianity by Hollywood. 

《反同运动的前世今生》（Pray Away），是网飞（Netflix）出品的一部关于康复性治疗组织“出埃及记国际”（Exodus International）的原创纪录片，利用它，好莱坞再一次对基督教发起了不加掩饰的攻击。

It’s not surprising that Netflix would seize on a false gospel to surreptitiously proffer a hit piece on Christianity in a lopsided tale of woe. Much of the media can hardly resist glomming on to extremes to further an agenda that denigrates Christians. What is surprising is how poorly made this doc is. Not only does it lack a cohesive and compelling narrative, but it attempts to throw any sort of anti-Christian spaghetti at the wall to see what sticks.

一点都不奇怪，网飞会抓住一个虚假的福音，通过讲述一个片面的悲惨故事，偷偷地打击基督教。许多媒体则难以抗拒追逐极端事件的诱惑，在诋毁基督徒的事上推波助澜。令人惊讶的是这部纪录片的粗制滥造。它不仅缺乏一个连贯的、令人信服的叙事，而且还试图抓住黄鼬当马骑，不管什么材料，只要是反基督教，就塞进去试试。

As someone who worked in Hollywood for decades, I’ve seen firsthand the contempt the entertainment industry has for Christianity. But only after I left my gay identity—in exchange for a new identity in Christ—did I realize the special resentment Hollywood reserves for converts like me. Pray Away is a case in point.

作为一个在好莱坞工作了几十年的人，我亲眼见证了娱乐业对基督教的轻蔑。但是，只有在我抛弃了同性恋身份，换取了在基督里的新身份之后，我才意识到好莱坞对我这样的皈依者格外仇恨。《反同运动的前世今生》就是一个典型的例子。

Celebrating Ex-Ex-Gay

片中名人：重回老路的同性恋者

The film opens on Jeffrey McCall, a former transsexual who had a powerful encounter with God and is now transformed by the gospel. The camera follows him on the streets of Georgia offering prayer to strangers. It’s clear the director capitalized on McCall’s lilting and effeminate Southern accent in an attempt to discredit him. Oh, those Bible-belt rubes and their quaint coming-to-Christ stories! But the focus on McCall is an odd choice and, as we see later, seems like a story from another film that somehow got mixed up in the editing room and mistakenly attached to this one.

影片以杰弗里·麦考尔（Jeffrey McCall）开场，他曾是一名变性人，在与神有过一次难忘的相交之后，他的生命被福音所反转。镜头跟随他，拍下他在佐治亚州的街道上为陌生人祷告。很显然，导演利用麦考尔那轻快而女性化的南方口音，试图作贱他。瞧瞧，这些来自圣经地带的乡巴佬；听听，他们又用老套的故事来劝人信基督！但是，把焦点放在麦考尔身上是一个奇怪的选择，正如我们后来所看到的，这看上去是另一部电影的故事，不知为何在剪辑室里被搞混了，错接到这部影片上。

The narrative inexplicably segues to former key leaders of Exodus International who have since come out as ex-ex-gay. Exodus was born in 1976 at a large conference in Anaheim, California, seeking to help homosexuals who wanted to rid themselves of unwanted same-sex attractions through a series of ad hoc and unscientific therapeutic methods. It’s no surprise these dubious methods failed. Attempts to “pray away the gay” all too often fail, leaving struggling folks not only mad at God or personally scarred but, far worse, in a state of apostasy. Tragically, the baby (the possibility of any change of affections) is usually thrown out with the bathwater (the problematic brand of “change” aimed at in conversion therapy).

接着，叙事转到了“出埃及记国际”前领导人的身上，这些人都经历了从“同性恋—放弃同性恋—回归同性恋”的转变，出埃及记是1976年在一次大型会议上成立的一个组织，其目的是帮助同性恋者改掉他们同性恋的癖好，使用的是一些临时的、不科学的治疗办法。因此，用这些办法治疗失败就毫不意外了。通过祈祷来摆脱同性恋的做法常常失败，这让挣扎在其中的人们或者上帝感到愤怒，或者感到很受伤，而且更糟糕的是使他们处于一种背道的状态。可悲的是，婴儿和洗澡水不应该一起泼掉，这里的婴儿是指转变同性恋情欲的可能性，洗澡水指的是转性疗法中存在问题的“变化”这块招牌。

Producer/director Kristine Stolakis seizes on the faulty science—and unbiblical theology—of conversion therapy to castigate anyone who would dare leave, or desire to leave, the LGBTQ community. The message is clear: if you are denying your sexual desires in order to follow Christ, you are just fooling yourself. Those desires are what define your identity, and to tamper with who you really are is dangerous and delusional.

制片人/导演克里斯汀-斯托拉基斯（Kristine Stolakis）紧紧抓住这些转性疗法中错误和不符合圣经的神学部分，对于任何试图离开这个群体的人进行了抨击。传递的信息很清楚：如果你为了跟随基督而否认自己的情欲，那么你只是在愚弄你自己，那些情欲定义了你的身份，抑制它们是危险的，也是自欺欺人的。

It’s worth noting how this stance represents contradictory doublespeak from the LGBTQ movement, which on one hand insists that gay identity is utterly unchangeable, while on the other suggests sexuality and gender are fluid and that radical self-expression demands we can change our identities on any given Tuesday. Turns out the LGBTQ movement actually is in favor of reparative therapy; it’s just that the only trustworthy therapist is you. If you want to transition from male to female, reparative therapy in the form of hormones and surgery is not only recommended, but practically mandatory.

值得注意的是，这种立场代表了LGBTQ运动的自相矛盾之处，他们一方面认为同性恋的身份是不可改变的，另一方面又认为性欲和和性别是流动的，在一星期的任何一天，你都可以宣布自己变性了，以满足自我表达欲。实际上，LGBTQ运动是赞成修复性疗法的，只不过他们认为唯一值得信赖的治疗师是你自己，如果你想从男性变成女性，他们不仅推荐通过荷尔蒙和手术修复疗法，甚至在在实际操作中，还强制这样做。

The film highlights the stories of people like Exodus cofounder Michael Busse, who left the organization in 1979 after admitting to himself that his attractions weren’t changing, and John Paulk, former board president and figurehead of the movement. Paulk ended up marrying an ex-lesbian and had children with her, claiming for years that he was free of same-sex desires. He shares the tragic story of how he had to live that lie in order to be “straight.” His wife divorced him after discovering he was leading a double life. Paulk is currently in a romantic relationship with a man.

影片重点聚焦了一些人的故事，包括出埃及记的联合创办人迈克尔·布塞（Michael Busse），他在1979年承认自己无法摆脱同性恋的吸引力之后，离开了该组织；还有约翰·保罗克（John Paulk）—这一运动的前任董事会主席以及形象代言人，他最后与一位前女同性恋者结婚便和她生了孩子，而在此之前，他声称已经摆脱了同性的欲望。他分享了自己悲惨的故事，说为了假装成直男他不得不在谎言中生活，他的妻子发现他的两面人生活之后跟他离婚了。他现在正和另外一个男人保持着浪漫关系。


Holy Sexuality, Not Heterosexuality

圣洁的性，而不是异性恋

What’s missing from the doc, of course, is a proper understanding of theology and what actually doomed Exodus International from the start. Trusting in Christ as your Lord and Savior does not guarantee that your sinful desires will vanish (although God created the universe and can do anything, including change one’s attractions). Students of Scripture are well aware that God’s grace is sufficient and his power is made perfect in our weakness (2 Cor. 12:9). Just ask the apostle Paul. We are never promised complete deliverance from stubborn vices that lurk in the deep crevices of our hearts. But we are given the Holy Spirit who empowers us to deny ourselves, take up our cross, and follow Jesus. This side of glory we all struggle with sundry sins, but we are no longer slaves to those sins; we’re slaves to righteousness and we have a righteous master in Jesus (Rom. 6:17–18).

这部纪录片所缺失的恰恰是对于神学的正确理解以及“出埃及记国际”从一开始就注定失败的缘由。相信基督是你的主和救主并不能保证你所有对罪的欲念都会消失，尽管上帝创造了宇宙，并且可以做任何事情，包括改变一个人的性吸引力。学习圣经的人都知道，上帝的恩典是够你用的，并且他的能力是在人的软弱上显得完全。看看使徒保罗吧。神没有应许我们完全摆脱潜伏在我们心灵深处缝隙的顽固的恶习，但是神赐下圣灵，给我们力量，叫我们可以攻克己身，背起十字架跟从耶稣。站在荣耀一边，我们都与各种各样的罪征战。但是，我们不再是这些罪的奴仆，而是义的奴仆，并且我们有一位公义的主：就是耶稣（罗马书6:17-18）。

Exodus’s fatal flaw was missing the forest for the trees. As author Christopher Yuan—who like me was redeemed out of a homosexual life—wisely puts it: the goal is not heterosexuality, it’s holy sexuality. Pray Away meanders through a few more stories of ex-ex-gays, including Yvette Cantu, who was a political operative for the organization, and Julie Rodgers, who was deeply involved in the ministry but now lives as a lesbian. Of course, the film ends with a grand wedding of Rodgers and her girlfriend in an ornate cathedral.

出埃及记国际的致命问题在于只见树木不见森林。

正如一位作者克利斯朵夫·苑（Christopher Yuan）（他跟我同样也是一个被拯救的同性恋）很有洞见地指出的，同性恋归正的目标不是异性恋，而圣洁的性。这部纪录片还讲述了一些回到老路上的同性恋的故事，包括负责该组织政府关系的卡图（Yvette Cantu），以及曾深入参与事工、但现在是一个女同性恋者的的茱莉亚·罗杰斯（Julie Rodgers）。当然，影片以罗杰斯和其女友在一个华丽的大教堂举行的盛大的同性恋婚礼而结束。

The film also tries in vain to tie up the loose end of Jeffrey McCall. Why his story is juxtaposed with the stories of former Exodus leaders is unclear. McCall simply left a life he no longer wanted because he found a treasure hidden in a field that was worth the cost of sexual self-denial (Matt. 13:44). He helps others in the LGBTQ community find that invaluable treasure.

影片在徒劳无功地试图用迈克尔的故事结尾，为什么他的故事和前出埃及记的领导人的故事并列在一起，这一点并不清楚。迈克尔只是离开了他不想要的生活，因为他发现了埋在地里的宝贝，这宝贝值得他付出攻克己身的代价（马太福音13:44）。他在帮助其他陷入LGBTQ（中文或称同性恋文化，是由女同性恋Lesbian、男同性恋Gay、双性恋Bisexual、跨性别Transgender、对其性别认同感到疑惑的人Questioning等群体所构成的文化—译者注）的人同样找到这个无价之宝。

Of course, the secular world will eagerly lap up this one-dimensional film with a side of relish. Misunderstanding and mischaracterizing the Christian life is a favorite pastime of Hollywood—as I know from experience. Faithful Christians are consistently portrayed as buffoons while, in this particular film, the ex-ex-gays are beacons of enlightenment.

当然，不信神的世界迫不及待地对这部只有一面之词的电影津津乐道。我的经验告诉我，误解和错误描绘基督徒的生活是好莱坞最喜欢的消遣方式。虔诚的基督徒总是被塑造成小丑。在这部倾向性明显的电影里，回归老路的同性恋者们简直成了启蒙的灯塔。

But do not be deceived. Eternity will show that those who choose to live according to God’s beautiful purposes for sexuality—rather than taking pride in their own self-made sexual morality, however acceptable it becomes—are the ones on the real right side of history. My plea to those in the LGBTQ community is to realize this before it’s too late—not to “pray away the gay,” but to pray away your pride and repent. The treasure of eternal life with Jesus is worth the struggle of living a wisp of time here with longings unresolved and desires denied.

但是不要被蒙骗，永恒将表明，上帝创造“性”的初衷是美好的，那些选择按照这一初衷生活的人，站在历史正确的一方，相反，那些对自己人造的性道德感到骄傲的人，不管怎么被大众所接受，都是站在历史错误的一方。我请求，LGBTQ社群的人都意识到这一点，以免悔之已晚。不是祈祷让同性恋的离开自己，而是祈祷让骄傲离开，并且悔改。与耶稣在一起的永生，这一至宝，值得我们在此生与不被满足的渴望以及被攻克的欲念斗争上一段时间。


原标题：Netflix’s ‘Pray Away’ Seethes with Contempt for Christianity

原链接：

https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/netflix-pray-away/

作者简介：

Becket Cook (MA, Talbot School of Theology) is the author of A Change of Affection: A Gay Man’s Incredible Story of Redemption and host of The Becket Cook Show on YouTube.

贝克特·库克（Becket Cook）是 塔尔博特神学院 （Talbot School of Theology）的 硕士，《激情的改变：一个同性恋者不可思议的被救赎故事》一书的作者，也是YouTube上《贝克特·库克秀》的主持人。

本文简介：网飞的这部纪录片通过错误的神学教导和歪曲的事实，对基督教大加攻击。

