This catalogue records the first major exhibition in the United States of Pulitzer Prize-winning photographs, many

heroism, compassion and the strivings

of ordinary people for a better life

under the burdens of poverty and crime. Among these are indelible images that, in coming centuries, will inevitably be used as flashbacks to illustrate the triumphs and tragedies of our era.

JOSEPH PULITZER

Consider Joe Rosenthal’s World War IL photograph

of the raising of the flag over Mount Suribachi on Iwo

Jima,animagethatisamemorialtothemorethan award,ofshotstakenwithoutbenefitofviewfinderorby

6,000 Marines who died in the battle for that small Pacific island. Or Robert Jackson’s photograph of Jack Ruby killing Lee Harvey Oswald, recalling the anguish and mystery of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Moneta Sleet’s picture of Coretta Scott King, cradling her disconsolate daughter, at her assassinated husband’s funeral, preserved as an icon of the civil rights movement. There is no more graphic testimony to the

inhumanity of the Vietnam War than Nick Ut’s photo- graph of a Vietnamese girl fleeing a napalm blast, run- ning to him for safety. And Ron Edmonds’ photographs of the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan remind

subterfuge, of not knowing what they had managed to get on film. Other tales, implicit in photographs them- selves, are revealing of extraordinary skill, enterprise, dedication and courage.

Some of the winners cannot speak of the nightmares suffered in recollection of what they beheld or what hap- pened to the people they photographed. There was Frank Filan, landing with the Marines under gunfire on Tarawa, losing his equipment, acting as a stretcher bearer for the wounded, borrowing a camera, and then photographing the devastation in which nearly 1,000 Americans and about 2,800 Japanese soldiers died. And Eddie Adams, dogged by remorse, unwilling for two years to look at his

enduring genital circumcision in Kenya.

Every Pulitzer photographer has a gripping story to

tell of how he or she did it. Modestly, some of the pho- tographers confess in interviews published in this cata- logue to pure luck or blind instinct that put them in the right position to win their profession’s most prestigious

INTRODUCTION Seymour Topping

us once again of the vulnerability of our presidents.

famous photograph of the South Vietnamese police chief executing a Viet Cong prisoner with a pistol shot to the head. And John Filo, knowing his photograph trauma- tized the life of the girl who knelt screaming beside the body of a student slain during an anti-Vietnam War demonstration on the campus of Kent State University.

We view the appalling image ofa line of blindfolded Kurdish rebels, bodies sagging, being executed by Iran- ian Revolutionary Guards—and the caption reads, “pho- tographer unnamed.”

The Pulitzer Prizes are bestowed each year after a rig- orous selection process. The two prizes in photography, spot news (now called breaking news) and feature, are among the 21 awards in newspaper journalism, books, music and drama. The prizes are awarded for distin- guished photography “in black and white or color, which may consist of a photograph or photographs, a sequence or an album.”

The competition isopen to allcomers who adhere to the rules. Non-American photographers are eligible if their pictures have been published in a U.S. newspaper during the calendar year. The first foreign winner was Yasushi Nagao, for his 1960 photograph of the sword assassination ofaJapanese politician inTokyo.

From about 150 entries, a jury of five noted newspa- per editors and photographers select three nominees in each of the two photography categories. The nomina- tions are submitted to the Pulitzer Prize Board, 19 emi- nent journalists and academics who meet in New York each April to determine the winners. Nothing of the judging process is disclosed until the president of Columbia University,who isamember oftheboard, announces the winners at a news conference in the Graduate School of Journalism. Winning the coveted prize often changes the lives of winners and their families, bringing them under unaccustomed pressures as they are thrust into the glare of national prominence. The cash award of $5,000 is usually the least of the benefits, which include lifelong recognition and new career opportunities. Itisan oft-repeated joke that the distinc- tion follows a winner to the grave with unfailing men- tion in obituaries.

In his will Pulitzer specified only four awards in jour- nalism, four in letters and drama, one in education and four traveling scholarships. Over the years, boards have increased and modified prize categories in keeping with evolutionary changes in culture and professional tech- niques. The prize in photography was first awarded in 1942 and in every succeeding year, except 1946, when the Pulitzer Board, exercising its authority to overrule any of the juries, deemed no nomination sufficiently worthy. In 1968, the board added a second photo cate- gory, feature photography, allowing for awards less related to breaking news and tending more to the docu- mentary. This encouraged a trend to storytelling with a collection of photographs rather than a single frame.

After 1970, when Dallas Kinney won the Pulitzer for a collection of pictures of impoverished migrant workers, entries of portfolios became common.

Joseph Pulitzer certainly would have applauded the board’s decision to make awards in photography, for he was among the first to make extensive use of illustrations in daily newspapers. In 1883, he told a group of journal- ists:

“They call me the father of illustrated journalism. What folly! I never thought of any such thing. I had a small newspaper, which had been dead for years, and I wastryingineverywaytobuildupitscirculation.What could I use for bait? A picture, of course. On Page One, in a position that would make The World stand out as the paper lay folded on the newsstand...a picture of someone prominent in the news of the day.

“There was a talented Russian artist in New York with a real genius for making portraits—Valerian Grib- ayedoff. Could, he with a photograph for model, draw a portrait so that it could be printed in The World? He could. Next day and every day thereafter, we showed on the upper-right-hand section of our first page the picture of a statesman, a blushing bride, a fugitive absconder, or a murderer on occasion—whoever was most prominent in the day’s doings. Circulation grew by the thousands.”

and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Of an endowment to Columbia University of $2 million, three-fourths was for the establishment of a School of Journalism and the balance for “prizes or scholarships for the encouragement of public service, public morals, American literature and theadvancement ofeducation.”

The independent Pulitzer Board derives itsauthority and original endowment from the 1904 will of Joseph Pulitzer (1847-1911), publisher of The New York World

The 1942 inaugural prize, for work done in 1941, went to Milton Brooks’ picture of Ford Motor Co. strikebreakers in a brutal clash with union pickets in Detroit. After the entry of the United States into World War II, the board responded to the hunger of Americans for images of their soldiers overseas. With the introduc- tionbyTheAssociatedPressofWirephoto,battlepictures were being transmitted for next-day publication. The AP of course, did more than transmit photos: It employed Pulitzer-winning photographers, beginning in 1943, when the award went to Frank Noel’s photograph of the faces of doomed men begging for water in the drifting lifeboat of a torpedoed freighter in the Pacific.

Pulitzer recognition often thereafter went to combat photographers in action in the Korean and Vietnam wars, and more recently in covering the genocidal ethnic and regional struggles, particularly in Africa. Kevin Carter’s tragic image—a Sudanese girl starving and a vulture waiting nearby—appealed to the world’s collec- tive conscience and brought needed aid. American troops were withdrawn from their peacekeeping mission in Somalia after the publication of Paul Watson’s photo- graph of the body of a U.S. Army Ranger, one of 18 killed in a firefight with guerrillas, being dragged through the streetsofMogadishu byamob ofjeeringSomalis.

The catalogue concludes with the 1999 awards to portfolios by Associated Press photographers of two very different news events, both shocking to the American psyche. In spot news, the prize went to images of the ter- roristbombing oftheAmerican embassies inKenya and

Tanzania and in feature photography, for a collection of photographs of key players and events stemming from President Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and the ensuing impeachment hearings.

Joseph Pulitzer sought in establishing his prizes to create incentives for quality performance in journalism and the arts. Most journalists and educators agree that his dream has been realized.

In pursuit of excellence, photojournalists over the past half-century have looked for ultimate recognition to the Pulitzer Prizes. Judges have adhered to the highest standards whether work is done by a newspaper staffer, a freelancer,or,indeed,evenbyanamateur. (Theamateur Virginia Schau won the 1954 Pulitzer with her Box Brownie for a stunning photograph of a truck and driver dangling from a bridge.) The scope of photojournalism has been broadened as professionals have gravitated from the cumbersome Speed Graphic, used by Joe Rosenthal on Iwo Jima, to high speed 35 mm color digital cameras employing a variety of lenses and loaded with computer disks, not film. In the last decade, 17 of the 20 Pulitzer awards have gone to color photography.

The Pulitzer Board has barred the increasingly com- mon practice of computer manipulation. The Plan of Award states that “no entry whose content is manipu- lated or altered, apart from standard newspaper cropping and editing, will be deemed acceptable.”

Because of their integrity and universality of themes, the Pulitzer photographs have appealed to viewers across barriers of time, place and language. A recent traveling exhibit of Pulitzer photographs in Japan sponsored by Nippon Television attracted more than 500,000 visitors. This new selection of Pulitzers is brought to the Ameri- can people thanks to the commitment to excellence in journalismofthestaffoftheNewseum andthegeneros- ityofThe Freedom Forum.