National Novel Writing Month
How hard can it be to write a novel?
The grating conceit of a seemingly innocuous event

Books, arts and culture
Prospero


Nov 7th 2011
BY A.C. | LONDON

Give this article

BOSSES would do well to be alarmed. November is here, and with it a good chance that the back office isn't crunching data, but whacking out a novel on the sly. It's “National Novel Writing Month”, a peculiar American invention that has improbably become an eagerly anticipated rite around the world.

Knock out a novel in a month: it can't be hard. The premise of the NaNoWriMo, as it's known, is that all writers need a deadline and a kick in the backside. In 30 days contestants have to knock out 50,000 words. How else to get those 1,666 words a day, except on company time? Twenty-one Californian writers started the online writing spree in 1999. Last year more than 200,000 joined in worldwide, though fewer than a fifth completed a full manuscript. If growth continues at the present rate, each American citizen will attempt to write a shortish novel by the year 2027, according to one goofy calculation. The organisers call it all empowering and harmless fun. But still there's something in the enterprise that grates.

NaNoWriMo relies on the peculiarly American belief that every person has a story—or a novel, or a book of any kind—inside. (Some have quipped that this was where it ought to stay.) There is no analogous drive to write the Great French Novel, or the English, or the German. The very notion that a novel is in everybody's grasp, and could be knocked out as a draft in just a month, is far more likely to induce some cringing in other countries.

Their horror can be summed up in a revelation shared by NaNoWriMo's founder, Chris Baty, who found to his delight that “novel-writing, we had discovered, was just like watching TV. You get a bunch of friends together, load up on caffeine and junk food, and stare at a glowing screen for a couple of hours.” Most writers who are dedicated to the craft would beg to disagree. The more apt metaphor is that used by a New York columnist in the 1940s: “It's easy: you simply sit down at the typewriter, open your veins, and bleed.”

Some argue there is nothing wrong with building a small city in the Republic of Letters, populated with mostly 20-something enthusiastic amateurs. That, after all, is what NaNoWriMo really is, with its forums and pep talks and town meetings worldwide. Professional heavyweight authors such as Neil Gaiman, Jonathan Lethem and Audrey Niffenegger cheerfully encourage all these scribblers, reasoning that forcing writers to sit down and write is no bad thing. The web has the power to unlock untapped riches of untutored talent, so the thinking goes. Indeed, Sara Gruen's bestselling novel “Water for Elephants” (2006) began as a NaNoWriMo draft. So too did Erin Morgenstern's debut "The Night Circus", recently reviewed in The Economist.

Others are more dubious. Laura Miller at Salon has attacked the programme for its “narcisstic commerce”, complaining that the last thing the world needs is 37,500 more lousy novels every year. Mr Baty acknowledges that the vast majority of first drafts are utter dreck, but he says that no one is foisting this drivel on the marketplace—at least not yet.

What's new now is that many can. No longer must these fledgling authors simply file their manuscripts away when NaNoWriMo ends. Expect instead to see them flooding Amazon and Lulu as self-published e-books. Thus enters a new glut of product on a saturated market. In recent years the pay for writing novels has been on the decline; it stands to reason that few established writers welcome a small army of amateurs biting into that shrinking pie.

全国小说写作月
写一部小说能有多难？
一个看似无害的事件的磨人的隐情

书籍、艺术和文化
普洛斯斐洛


2011年11月7日
作者：A.C.｜伦敦

给这篇文章

老板们应该感到震惊。11月来了，而且很有可能后台不是在计算数据，而是在偷偷摸摸地写小说。这是 "全国小说写作月"，一个奇特的美国发明，不经意间已成为全世界热切期待的仪式。

在一个月内完成一部小说：这不会很难。众所周知，NaNoWriMo的前提是，所有作家都需要一个最后期限和一个踢屁股的机会。在30天内，参赛者必须写出50,000字。除了在公司的时间内，还能如何获得每天1666个字呢？二十一位加利福尼亚作家在1999年开始了网上写作的狂欢。去年，全世界有20多万人加入，尽管只有不到五分之一的人完成了完整的手稿。如果继续以目前的速度增长，根据一个愚蠢的计算，到2027年，每个美国公民将试图写一部短篇小说。组织者称这都是授权和无害的乐趣。但是，这项活动中仍然有一些令人厌恶的东西。

NaNoWriMo依靠的是美国人特有的信念，即每个人的内心都有一个故事，或者一部小说，或者任何类型的书。(有人打趣说这是它应该呆的地方。)没有类似的动力去写伟大的法国小说，或英国小说，或德国小说。一部小说在每个人的掌握之中，而且可以在短短一个月内打出草稿，这个概念本身更有可能在其他国家引起一些畏缩。

他们的恐惧可以用NaNoWriMo的创始人克里斯-巴蒂（Chris Baty）分享的一个启示来概括，他高兴地发现，"我们发现，写小说就像看电视。你把一群朋友聚在一起，喝上咖啡因和垃圾食品，然后盯着发光的屏幕看上几个小时。" 大多数致力于写作的作家都会不同意这个观点。更贴切的比喻是纽约一位专栏作家在1940年代使用的。"这很容易：你只需坐在打字机前，打开你的血管，然后流血。"

有些人认为，在 "文学共和国 "建立一个小城市并无不妥，那里的居民大多是20多岁的热情的业余爱好者。毕竟，这才是NaNoWriMo的真正含义，它的论坛、动员会和城镇会议遍布全球。尼尔-盖曼（Neil Gaiman）、乔纳森-莱特姆（Jonathan Lethem）和奥黛丽-尼芬格（Audrey Niffenegger）等专业重量级作家兴高采烈地鼓励所有这些涂鸦者，理由是迫使作家坐下来写作并不是坏事。网络有能力释放出未经训练的人才的财富，这种想法是这样的。事实上，萨拉-格鲁恩（Sara Gruen）的畅销小说《大象之水》（2006年）就是从NaNoWriMo的草稿开始的。Erin Morgenstern的处女作 "The Night Circus "也是如此，最近在《经济学人》上发表了评论。

其他人则更加怀疑。沙龙的劳拉-米勒(Laura Miller)抨击了该计划的 "自恋商业"，抱怨说世界最不需要的就是每年多出37,500部糟糕的小说。巴蒂先生承认，绝大多数初稿都是彻头彻尾的垃圾，但他说，没有人把这些垃圾强加给市场--至少现在没有。

现在的新情况是，许多人可以。当NaNoWriMo活动结束时，这些初出茅庐的作者不再必须简单地将他们的手稿归档。相反，我们可以看到他们以自我出版的电子书形式涌入亚马逊和Lulu。这样一来，饱和的市场就出现了新的产品过剩。近年来，写小说的报酬一直在下降；按理说，很少有成熟的作家欢迎一小群业余爱好者咬着那块正在缩小的蛋糕。