The farmer’s tale
A landmark Estonian novel is adapted into a film
“Truth and Justice” tells the national story—but its meaning has changed with the times

Books & arts
Mar 7th 2020 edition


Mar 5th 2020
TALLINN

Give this article
By 1927 people began to descend on North-Tammsaare, a farm deep in the Estonian countryside. They asked the farmer, August Hansen, to show them the spot where Juss hanged himself, or where Kroot had given birth. Hansen was surprised, and sometimes annoyed: Juss and Kroot did not exist. They were characters from the fictional farm of Vargamae who appeared in the first volume of a five-part novel, “Truth and Justice”, published the previous year by Hansen’s younger brother, Anton. (The author adopted the name of the real farm as his pseudonym, becoming A.H. Tammsaare.)

Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

At first, locals pointed out that the people and places sought by the visitors were invented. As more kept coming, though, they began recounting the stories as if they were true. “The reality got mixed up so perfectly with the fiction that we are not able to say any more what was made up and what was actually there,” says Maarja Vaino, who runs a museum devoted to the author in Tallinn. “It [became] kind of a sacred cultural place for Estonians.” The farm has remained so ever since—even if its meaning has changed with the times. Now a blockbuster film is spreading the legend to an even wider audience.


Together, the story’s five volumes chart Estonia’s progress from province of the Russian empire to statehood. The first volume is by far the best known; most Estonians are familiar with the characters, even if they have never read the book. Some secondary-school pupils take other classes to avoid studying it—and it is easy to see why. The series is a daunting read, full of metaphysical asides and tangential subplots, centring on the grinding life of peasants.

It opens in the 1870s during the “national awakening”, when a unique Estonian national identity began to emerge. An idealistic young man named Andres buys a poor farm—the best he can afford—determined to improve it for his children. He repeatedly scraps with his idle, drunken neighbour, Pearu. As their antagonism grows, so does Andres’s obsession with making his plot prosperous. He fights trivial legal battles with Pearu, all the while slaving over the farm along with his put-upon family.

Early Estonian readers saw themselves and their ancestors in Andres’s struggles. Serfdom was abolished in the Baltic region in 1816-19, more than 40 years before most of Russia’s empire. Much of the land still belonged to Baltic-German aristocracy, but people could now lease or buy their own patch. Conditions were harsh, but literacy spread rapidly, enabling peasants to fight for their rights in court, against both squires and each other. (The literal translation of the novel’s Estonian title, “Tode ja oigus”, is “Truth and Jurisprudence”.) Reading the Bible helped them form their own religious views; Tammsaare’s characters frequently question divine authority.

Later volumes deal with the events—including revolution and the first world war—that led to Estonia becoming an independent republic in 1918. In his compatriots’ imagination, Tammsaare and his creations were bound up with the historical tumult. Even in his lifetime he was a literary hero. His death in 1940, just before the Soviet invasion, was seen as a harbinger of the republic’s demise.

Never-ending story
In the Soviet era, interpretations of “Truth and Justice” were updated. Tammsaare’s criticism of revolution originally landed his work on a list of suspicious books, but by 1950 Soviet authorities had come up with a way to exploit the story. New forewords praised its depiction of unceasing labour in pursuit of a better future—“work hard, and love will come later” remains one of the most famous lines—while blaming the misery of Andres’s family on his urge to accumulate wealth and property. For most Estonians, meanwhile, the book was a reminder of a past and an identity that their occupiers wanted to erase.

The new film—the first ever cinema adaptation—is yet another twist in the cultural odyssey of “Truth and Justice”. Within a month of its premiere last year, it was the most watched movie in the country since it emerged from the Soviet Union in 1991. Though paltry by Hollywood’s standards, the budget of €2.5m ($2.8m), mostly state-funded, was among the biggest ever for an Estonian film. It won recognition abroad, just missing a nomination for Best International Feature Film at the Academy Awards.

The adaptation was a saga in itself. Tanel Toom, the director, was among those who avoided reading “Truth and Justice” as a child. He jokes that, after graduating, he lugged the book around for a decade before opening it. The film took seven years to make, in part spent honing the sprawling story into a coherent script. In this selective rendering, stoicism and striving are more destructive than virtuous. Desperate for a son, Andres repeatedly impregnates his first wife until she dies in childbirth; he beats his second rather than acknowledge his guilt over marrying her. He reads his Bible obsessively, shuns society and cannot see why his children want to leave the land he moulded for them. These lives play out in a sweeping, inhospitable landscape, against which they seem insignificant.

“I understood that I’m a bit like [Andres],” Mr Toom says of the project. To him, it is a reminder to “see the rest of the world, to not forget about your loved ones”. Evidently his interpretation struck a chord: he was named “person of the year” for 2019 by Postimees, Estonia’s biggest newspaper. Almost a century after they first appeared, the denizens of Vargamae farm live on. 

农夫的故事
爱沙尼亚的一部里程碑式的小说被改编成电影
"真理与正义》讲述了国家的故事--但其意义已随时代而改变

书籍与艺术
2020年3月7日版


2020年3月5日
塔利宁

给这篇文章
到1927年，人们开始来到爱沙尼亚乡村深处的一个农场--北塔姆萨雷。他们要求农场主奥古斯特-汉森带他们去看看朱斯上吊的地方，或者克洛特分娩的地方。汉森很惊讶，有时还很恼火。Juss和Kroot并不存在。他们是虚构的瓦尔加梅农场的人物，出现在五部曲小说的第一卷中，"真理与正义"，由汉森的弟弟安东在前一年出版。作者采用真实农场的名字作为笔名，成为A.H. Tammsaare）。

听听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

起初，当地人指出，游客所寻找的人和地方都是发明的。然而，随着越来越多的人来到这里，他们开始讲述这些故事，仿佛它们是真的。"现实与虚构混为一谈，以至于我们无法说清楚哪些是编造的，哪些是实际存在的，"在塔林经营一个专门介绍作者的博物馆的马利亚-瓦伊诺说。"它[成为]爱沙尼亚人的一种神圣的文化场所"。从那时起，这个农场就一直如此--尽管它的意义已经随着时代的发展而改变。现在，一部大片正在将这个传说传播给更多的观众。


这个故事共分五卷，描绘了爱沙尼亚从俄罗斯帝国的一个省到国家的进展。到目前为止，第一卷是最有名的；大多数爱沙尼亚人都熟悉这些人物，即使他们从未读过这本书。一些中学生为了避免学习这本书而选修其他课程--这很容易看出原因。这套书读起来令人生畏，充满了形而上学的旁枝末节，以农民的艰苦生活为中心。

它开篇于19世纪70年代的 "民族觉醒 "时期，当时一个独特的爱沙尼亚民族身份开始出现。一个名叫安德烈的理想主义青年买了一个贫穷的农场--他能负担得起的最好的农场--决心为他的孩子改善它。他多次与他那无所事事的醉鬼邻居Pearu发生争吵。随着他们的对立情绪的增长，安德烈对使他的土地繁荣的执着也在增长。他与Pearu进行了琐碎的法律斗争，同时与他那被抛弃的家人一起在农场里劳作。

早期的爱沙尼亚读者在安德烈的斗争中看到了自己和自己的祖先。波罗的海地区在1816-19年废除了农奴制，比俄罗斯帝国的大部分地区早了40多年。大部分土地仍然属于波罗的海-德国贵族，但人们现在可以租赁或购买自己的土地。条件很艰苦，但识字率迅速提高，使农民能够在法庭上为自己的权利而斗争，既反对乡绅，也反对彼此。小说的爱沙尼亚语标题 "Tode ja oigus "的直译是 "真理与法学"）。阅读《圣经》有助于他们形成自己的宗教观点；Tammsaare的人物经常质疑神的权威。

后来的几卷书涉及的事件--包括革命和第一次世界大战--导致爱沙尼亚在1918年成为一个独立的共和国。在他的同胞们的想象中，塔姆萨雷和他的创作与历史的动荡联系在一起。即使在他生前，他也是一个文学英雄。他在1940年苏联入侵前去世，被视为共和国灭亡的预兆。

永无止境的故事
在苏联时代，对 "真理与正义 "的解释被更新。塔姆萨雷对革命的批评最初使他的作品被列入可疑书籍名单，但到1950年，苏联当局想出了一个利用这个故事的办法。新的前言赞扬了它对追求美好未来的不间断劳动的描述--"努力工作，爱情会在以后到来 "仍然是最著名的台词之一，同时将安德烈斯家庭的苦难归咎于他积累财富和财产的欲望。同时，对于大多数爱沙尼亚人来说，这本书提醒他们占领者想要抹去的过去和身份。

这部新电影--有史以来的第一部改编电影--是《真相与正义》文化之旅的又一个转折。在去年首映的一个月内，它成为该国自1991年脱离苏联以来收视率最高的电影。尽管以好莱坞的标准来看，这部电影的预算为250万欧元（280万美元），大部分由国家资助，是爱沙尼亚有史以来最大的电影之一。它赢得了国外的认可，仅仅错过了奥斯卡奖最佳国际故事片的提名。

改编本身就是一个传奇。导演塔内尔-图姆(Tanel Toom)是那些在童年时避免阅读《真理与正义》的人之一。他开玩笑说，毕业后，他拖着这本书看了十年才打开。这部电影花了七年时间制作，其中一部分时间是将这个庞大的故事磨练成一个连贯的剧本。在这种选择性的渲染中，坚忍不拔的精神和努力比美德更具有破坏性。由于渴望得到一个儿子，安德烈多次让他的第一任妻子怀孕，直到她死于分娩；他殴打他的第二任妻子，而不承认他对与她结婚的愧疚。他痴迷地阅读圣经，回避社会，不明白为什么他的孩子们要离开他为他们塑造的土地。这些生活在一个广阔的、荒凉的风景中上演，在这个风景中，他们显得无足轻重。

"我明白，我有点像[安德烈]，"图姆先生谈到这个项目时说。对他来说，这是一个提醒，"看看世界的其他地方，不要忘记你的亲人"。显然，他的解释引起了人们的共鸣：他被爱沙尼亚最大的报纸Postimees评为2019年的 "年度人物"。在他们首次出现的近一个世纪后，瓦尔加梅农场的居民仍然活着。