3.2

Read the script and answer the questions.

Ext. Oak Alley. The Gump Boarding House,

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a dirt road. A row of mailboxes

stands left.

Forrest: (voice-over) We lived about a quarter mile of Route 17, about a half mile from the town of Greenbow, Alabama. That's in the county of Greenbow. Our house had been in

Momma's family since her grandpa's grandpa's grandpa

had come across the ocean about a thousand years ago.

Something like that.

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along the Gump Boarding House driveway.

Forrest: (voice-over) Since it was just me and Momma and we

1. 2.

had all these empty rooms, Momma decided to let those rooms out. Mostly to people passing through. Like from, oh, Mobile, Montgomery, place like that. That's how me and Mommy got money. Mommy was a real smart lady.

What did Mrs. Gump do for a living?

Do you think many Americans lived in the suburbs in 1950s?

Read to understand what role women played in American life and popular culture in the middle of the 20t h century.

The 1950s were a period of great social change. One of the most pronounced shifts was the vast migration of people to the suburbs. Several factors encouraged that growth. A postwar "baby boom" created a need for new housing, while the prosperity of the period enabled many people to buy their own homes. The Gl Bill provided federal aid for home-loan mortgages for

veterans. And a massive postwar road-building program linked suburban homes to city jobs.

Managing a home in the suburbs became the goal of many women in the 1950s. The suburbs, in turn, became increasingly self- contained, marking the decline of the inner cities. While suburban residents of the 1920s had depended on the city for entertainment and shopping, the postwar surbanite could find a wide variety of goods in nearby supermarkets.

Television was especially important in reinforcing the view that women's role was in the home. The popularity of television had risen dramatically since the beginning of national network broadcasting in 1946. During the 1950s, almost 7 million television sets were sold each year. Most television commercials showed women doing work around the house. Popular programs such as "Father Knows Best" seldom portrayed women who worked outside the home.

List two factors that encouraged the growth of suburbs after World War II.

What was the goal of many American women during the 1950s?

3.3 NEW POPULAR CULTURE

Read the script and answer the questions.

Forrest: (voice-over) One time a young man was staying with us, and he had him a guitar case.

Mrs. Gump looks into Forrest's room. She hears singing coming from another room and walks over to a closed door. Mrs. Gump opens the door, revealing a young man with long sideburns as he plays the guitar and sings. Forrest holds onto a broom and dances oddly. The young man is ELvis Presley.

Elvis Presley: (sings) "Well, you ain't never caught a rabbit, and you ain't no friend of mine."

Forrest's legs rock back and forth to the guitar.

Mrs. Gump: Forrest* I told you not to bother this nice young man.

Elvis: Oh, no, that's all right, ma'am. I was just showin' him a thing or two on the guitar here.

Mrs. Gump: All right, but your supper's ready if y'all want to eat.

Elvis: Yeah, that sounds good. Thank you, ma'am.

Mrs. Gump leaves and closes the door. Elvis sits back down. Forrest stands left, and looks himself in a mirror.

Elvis: Say, man, show me that crazy little walk you just did there.

Slow it down some.

Forrest begins to dance again as Elvis plays the guitar and sings.

Elvis: (sings) "You ain't nothin' but a hound, hound dog..." Forrest: (voice-over) I liked that guitar.

Forrest dances as he watches himself in the mirror.

Forrest: (voice-over) It sounded good.

Elvis: (sings)"... cryin' all the time..."

Forrest rocks up and down on his braced legs, then begins to step.

Elvis: (sings) "You ain't nothin' but a hound dog..."

Forrest: (voice-over) I started moving around to the music,

swinging my hips. This one night we and Momma...

Ext. Greenbow. Night.

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a sidewalk. A television inside a store window reveals Elvis Presley as he performs "Houng Dog" on a stage.

Forrest: (voice-over) ...was out shoppin', and we walked right

by Benson's Furniture and Appliance store, and guess

what.

The television reveals Elvis as he thrusts his hips and sings.

Elvis: (sings) "You ain't nothin' but a hound dog..."

Mrs. Gump and Forrest watch the television.

Elvis dances around in the same manner Forrest did. A womamn the audience is screaming and applauding.

Elvis: (sings) "You ain't nothin' but a hound dog..."

Mrs. Gump: This is not children's eyes.

Mrs. Gump walks away, pulling Forrest with her. Forrest stops and takes one last look.

Elvis continues to perform over the television.

Elvis: (sings) "Well, you ain't never caught a rabbit and you ain't

no friend of mine."

Forrest: (voice-over) Some years later, that handsome young

man who they called "The King," well, he sung too many songs, had himself a heart attack or something.

1. What new forms of music and visual arts began to become part of the popular culture in the 1950s?

2. What new music and art forms have emerged in the past 10 to 15 years?

Read to understand what new music and art forms developed in the 1950s.

The undercurrents of change in society in 1950s were reflected in music and art. During the 1930s and 1940s, popular music had been dominated by the smooth melodies of such "crooners" as Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra and by the "big band" sounds of Glenn Miller and Duke Ellington. In the 1950s, radio disk jokeys began playing a new type of music - rock 'n' roll. Rock 'n' roll

blended elements from country-and-western music with the rhythm-and-blues songs of black artists. American teenagers loved the strong beat, simple harmonies, and loud volume.

Rock's driving beat stood in sharp contrast to the quiet tone of much of the Eisenhower era. Many adults were shocked by the slicked-back hairdos and hip-swinging performance styles of rock stars like EMs Presley, Chuck Berry, and Buddy Holly. Some worried that rock music would contribute to teenage crime and immorality. Despite such objections, American youth quickly adopted rock. Rock stars became idols, and rock 'n' roll filled the air waves.

The visual arts also were transformed. American artists led an international movement away from realistic painting to a form known as abstract expressionism. Visitors to art galleries were often puzzled by what appeared to be little more than randomly splashed paint on canvases. But the abstract expressionists were serious artists. Some, such as Jackson Pollock, used swirling colors to absorb the viewer in emotion. Others offered interesting repetitions of colors and lines.

50

51

E. B. riMHyrMHa Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump

• •

Do you agree with the famous words of Hans Hoffman, the New York School artist, who wrote that "a picture should be made with feeling, not knowing"?

What are your personal preferences in music and art forms?

3.4 CIVILRIGHTS Read the script and answer the questions.

Int. Greenbow. BarberShop. Black & White Television.

(June 11.1963).

An anchorman named Chet Huntley appears over the television. Chet Huntley: (on TV) Federal troops enforcing a court order

integrated the University of Alabama today.

Ext, University of Alabama. Dav.

Forrest walks through a crowd of people.

Chet Huntley: Governor George Wallace had carried out his symbolic threat to stand in the schoolhouse door. Governor Wallace: We hereby denounce and forbid this illegal

and unwarranted action by the central government.

Int. Greenbow. Barbershop.

A black and white television reveals George Wallace as he stands in the doorway of the schoolhouse.

Katzenbach: (on TV) Governor Wallace, I take it from that,

uh...

Ext. University of Alabama.

Forrest steps over to a young man as the crowd looks at the demonstration.

Katzenbach: ...statement that you are going to stand in that

door, and that you are not going to carry out the orders of this court, and that you are going to resist us from doing so. I would ask you once again to responsibility step aside and if you do not, I'm going to assure you...

Forrest: Earl, what's going on?

Earl: Coons are tryin' to get into school.

Forrest: Coons? When racoons try to get on our back porch,

Momma just chase 'em off with a broom.

Earl: Not racoons, you idiot, niggas. And they want to go to

school with us. Forrest: With us? They do?

Forrest walks toward the schoolhouse.

Int. Coaches' Office.

A football coach looks at a black and white television as a newsman outside the schoolhouse speaks to the camera.

Newsman: (on TV) ...block the doorway, President Kennedy

ordered the Secretary of Defense then to use the military force.

piank and White Footaae.

The footage cuts to Governor Wallace as he speaks to General Graham.

Newsman: Here by videotape is the encounter by General

Graham, Commander of the National Guard, and Governor

Wallace.

Forrest stands next to George Wallace and listens.

Governor: We must have no violence today, or any other day, because Wallace these National Guardsmen are here today as Federal Soldiers for Alabamans. And they live within our borders and they are all our brothers. We are winning in this fight because we are awakening the American people to the dangers that we have spoken about so many times, just so evident today, the trend toward military dictatorship in this country.

Ext. University of Alabama.

Some of the Alabama policemen and citizens clap their hands as the National Guardsmen stand at attention with their weapons in front of them. Forrest walks through the crowd. Two black students were being led toward the schoolhouse.

Newsman: And so at day's end the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa had been desegregated and students Jimmy Hood and Vivian Malone had been signed up for summer classes.

The young black girl drops one other books. Forrest notices and steps past the policeman toward the book on the ground. Forrest steps out from the crowd and picks up the book. He brings it up to the girl.

Forrest: Ma'am, you dropped your book. Ma'am. Int. Coaches' Office. Night (1963).

A coach looks at the television. The television reveals Forrest as he stands at the schoolhouse door. He looks around, then waves. Chet Huntley: (on TV) Governor Wallace did what he promised

to do. By being on the Tuscaloosa campus, he

An assistant coach looks at the television, then at the other coaches.

Assitant Coach: Say, wasn't that Gump?

The football coach and two assistant coaches look. Forrest dries

himself off with a towel as he steps from the showers.

Chet Huntley: (on TV) NBC News will present a special program on the Alabama integration story at 7:30 p.m. tonight...

Assistant Coach: Naw, that couldn't be.

Football Coach: It sure as hell was.

Chet Huntley: ...standard Eastern Daylight Time. Now a word from Anacin.

Forrest steps up to the coaches' area and grabs a clean towel. The coaches turn and stare at Forrest Forrest gives them one of

his silly waves, then walks away.

Color Footage.

Governor Wallace waves to the crowd as he stands behind a podium with his wife.

Forrest: (voice-over) A few years later, that angry little man at the schoolhouse door thought it would be a good idea, and ran for President.

Color Footage.

Governor Wallace mingles in a crowd: Gunshots are fired, wounding him. Some men wrestle the shooter. Wallace lies wounded on the ground.

Forrest: (voice-over) But, somebody thought that it wasn't.

1. What do you know about segregation in the US?

2. Who is the most eminent civil rights leader of the 1960s?

Read to understand what advances were made in civil rights during the Kennedy administration.

Although Kennedy had long supported civil rights legislation, as President he moved cautiously because he needed the backing of southern Democrats in Congress for other programs. He did, however, support a voting rights bill and a proposal for a Twenty-

fourth Amendment to the Constitution, prohibiting poll taxes. This amendment was passed in August 1962 and ratified in 1964. Kennedy also appointed blacks as heads of the Housing Finance Agency and Thurgood Marchall as a federal judge.

Many civil rights leaders were unhappy with the slow pace of reform. Unwilling to wait for the government, they adopted the tactic of nonviolent opposition advocated by the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. His organization, the Southers Christian Leadership Conference, was joined by others, including the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCG). The national Association for the Advancement of Colored People continued to work through the courts, where it filed suits against acts of discrimination.

A movement against segregated public facilities in the South began in 1960, vfrhen a group of young blacks refused to leave an "all-white" lunch counter. "Freedom riders" refused to be segregated on buses and trains. Protestors led campaigns to desegregate schools. In the North, advocates of civil rights organized rent strikes to protest poor housing conditions and boycotted stores that refused to hire blacks. These nonviolent tactics often produced a violent response. Angry mobs attacked buses of freedom riders. Police sometimes scattered protesters with water hoses, police dogs, or electric cattle prods. Civil rights workers were imprisoned and fined.

Beginning with the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955 lead by Reverend Martin Luther King, conflicts between the Civil Rights movement and those who would fight to maintain "the white way of life" would lead to violence and, in some cases, murder. Between 1948 and 1965, over two hundred Black churches and homes in the Deep South were the target o* bombings, and there was no more volatile city than Birmingham, Alabama (dubbed "Bombingham").

Attorney General Robert Kennedy, the President's brother, dealt firmly with violations of civil rights. In 1961, he sent federal troops

to Alabama to protect blacks trying to integrate buses and trains. He personally supervised the case of James Meredith, a black Air Force veteran who tried to enroll at the all-white University of Mississippi. Riots broke out when Meredith registered for classes in 1962. The attorney general ordered 5,000 federal troops to the campus to restore order. Several hundred soldiers remained

there until Meredith graduated.

In 1962, before his election as Governor, George Wallace aligned himself with other Southern Governors who were facing the same issues of federal intervention in order to impose desegregation ift their states' schools. Wallace appeared at a rally for Georgia's Marvin Griffin, who was running against a candidate with more moderate views on desegregation. Wallace also supported Mississippi's Governor Ross Bamett in the dramatic confrontation between state and federal authority over the admission of the University of Mississippi's first black student, James Meredith. The stage was set

for his own dramatic stand at the University of Alabama.

In Alabama, Governor George Wallace got national attention by personally barring the door as federal marshals tried to escort black student Autherine Lucy into the formerly all-white University of Alabama. Like Meredith, Lucy continued her education with the protection of federal troops.

George Corley Wallace was born on August 25, 1919 in a four- room "shotgun" house just off Main Street in Clio, Alabama. In all, the Wallaces had four children: George, Gerald, Jack, and Marianne. The family, like many others in the rural South and elsewhere in the United States, suffered hardships with the collapse of the economy during the Depression. George's political leanings were, no doubt, shaped by the rural poverty he experienced and his father's open bitterness regarding the economic conditions in the South. George Sr. often expressed to his son that "Southerners could not be elected to national office because Northerners looked down upon us." Little did his father realize the impact his opinions

would have on the political platforms of the future Alabama

governor. In 1968, reacting to anti-Vietnam war movement and to the urban riots that had been disrupting the nation, George Wallace became a third-party candidate for President. He campaigned on the pledge to restore "law and order" to the nation.

In June 1963, President Kennedy presented Congress with a proposal for a comprehensive cMI rights program. The proposed legislation would ban discrimination in employment, in public accommodation, in voting, and in state programs receiving federal aid. In a television message, the president asked: Are we to say to the world - and much more importantly, to each other - that this is the land of the free except for the Negroes; that we have no second- class citizens, except Negroes; that we have no class or caste system, no ghettos, no master race; except with respect to Negroes?

On August 28, 1963, more than 200,000 blacks and whites gathered in Washington, D.C., to demand racial equality. Waving banners, and singing hymns, they listened as civil rights leaders called for justice. The high point of the day was a ringing speech of hope by Martin Lither King, Jr. "I have a dream," he proclaimed and then painted a picture of a nation where all people were equal and he and his children would be "free at last!"

Describe the tactics used by civil rights supporters in the early 1960s.

As the Voting Rights Act increased black voter registration, more black candidates began to run for office. Name some prominent black elected officials serving in the US today.

3.5 THEWHITEHOUSE Read the script and answer the questions.

Black and White Paramount Newsreel. Day (1963).

The White House with the words "The eyes and ears of the world Paramount News" superimposed.

Forrest: (voice-over) They even put me on a thing called th All-America Team where you get to meet the President the United States.

Black and White Newsreel.

President Kennedy holds an autographed football as the All American Team stands behind him. Forrest is among the playe in suits.

Announcer: (over newsreel) President Kennedy met with th

Collegiate All-American Football Team at the Oval Office today.

Int. White House Reception Area. Day (1963).

The All-American players mingle around the food table. Forrest steps up to the table. A large spread of food and soda is on the table.

Forrest: (voice-over) Now, the real good thing about meeting

the President of the United States is the food.

Forrest takes a bottle of Dr. Pepper from the buttlet table. Numerous bottles of Dr. Pepper are displayed on the table. A servant opens the bottle for him.

Forrest: (voice-over) They put you in this little room with just

about anything you'd want to eat or drink. And since

number one, I wasn't hungry, but thirsty.

Forrest begins to guzzle the Dr. Pepper.

Forrest: (voice-over)... and number two, they was free, I musta drank me about fifteen Dr. Peppers.

Black and White Footage.

President Kennedy shakes hands with the All-American football players.

1. 2.

Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump Read to learn the historical background of the White

House.

For two hundred years, the White House has stood as a symbol of the Presidency, the United States government, and the American people. Its history, and the history of the nation's capital, began when President George Washington signed an Act of Congress in December of 1790 declaring that the federal government would reside in a district "not exceeding ten miles square... on the river Potomac." President Washington, together with city planner Pierre L'Enfant, chose the site for the new residence, which is now 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. As preparations began for the new federal city, a competition was held to find a builder of the "President's House". Nine proposals were submitted, and Irish-born architect James Hoban won a gold medal for his practical and handsome design. Construction began when the first cornerstone was laid in October of 1792. Although President Washington oversaw the construction of the-house, he never lived in it. It was not until 1800, when the White House was nearly completed, that its first residents, President John Adams and his wife, Abigail, moved in. Since that time, each President has made his own changes and additions. The White House is, after all, the President's private home. It is also the only private residence of a head of state that is open to the public, free of charge.

The White House has a unique and fascinating history. It survived a fire at the hands of the British in 1814 (during the war of 1812) and another fire in the West Wing in 1929, while Herbert Hoover was President. Throughout much of Harry S. Truman's presidency, the interior of the house, with the exception of the third floor, was completely gutted and renovated while the Trumans lived at Blair House, right across Pennsylvania Avenue. Nonetheless, the exterior stone walls are those first put in place when the White House was constructed two centuries ago.

Presidents can express their individual style in how they decorate some parts of the house and in how they receive the public during

58

59

When was the nation's capital moved from New York to Washington, D.C.?

Do you think that Washington, D.C., fulfills L'Enfant's prediction that it would "leave to posterity a grand idea of the patriotic interest which promoted it"?

Read to learn the historical background of the White

House.

For two hundred years, the White House has stood as a symbol of the Presidency, the United States government, and the American people. Its history, and the history of the nation's capital, began when President George Washington signed an Act of Congress in December of 1790 declaring that the federal government would reside in a district "not exceeding ten miles square... on the river Potomac." President Washington, together with city planner Pierre L'Enfant, chose the site for the new residence, which is now 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. As preparations began for the new federal city, a competition was held to find a builder of the "President's House". Nine proposals were submitted, and Irish-born architect James Hoban won a gold medal for his practical and handsome design. Construction began when the first cornerstone was laid in October of 1792. Although President Washington oversaw the construction of the-house, he never lived in it. It was not until 1800, when the White House was nearly completed, that its first residents, President John Adams and his wife, Abigail, moved in. Since that time, each President has made his own changes and additions. The White House is, after all, the President's private home. It is also the only private residence of a head of state that is open to the public, free of charge.

The White House has a unique and fascinating history. It survived a fire at the hands of the British in 1814 (during the war of 1812) and another fire in the West Wing in 1929, while Herbert Hoover was President. Throughout much of Harry S. Truman's presidency, the interior of the house, with the exception of the third floor, was completely gutted and renovated while the Trumans lived at Blair House, right across Pennsylvania Avenue. Nonetheless, the exterior stone walls are those first put in place when the White House was constructed two centuries ago.

Presidents can express their individual style in how they decorate some parts of the house and in how they receive the public during

their stay. Thomas Jefferson held the first Inaugural open hou

in 1805. Many of those who attended the swearing-in ceremon at the US Capitol simply followed him home, where he greeted them in the Blue Room. President Jefferson also opened the housg for public tours, and it has remained open, except during wartime, ever since. In addition, he welcomed visitors to annual receptions on New Year's Day and on the Fourth of July. In 1829, a horde of 20,000 Inaugural callers forced President Andrew Jackson to flee

to the safety of a hotel while, on the lawn, aides filled washtubs with orange juice and whiskey to lure the mob out of the mud* tracked White House.

After Abraham Lincoln's presidency, Inaugural crowds became far too large for the White House to accommodate them comfortably. However, not until Grover Cleveland's first presidency did this unsafe practice change. He held a presidential review of the troops from a flag-draped grandstand built in front of the White House. This procession evolved into the official Inaugural parade we know today. Receptions on New Year's Day and the Fourth of July continued to be held until the earty 1930s. At various times in history, the White House has been known as the "President's Palace", the "President's House", and the "Executive Mansion". President Theodore Roosevelt officially gave the White House its current name in 1901.

• Who was the White House designed by?

What happened to the oldest federal building during the British-American war?

Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump Forrest: (voice*over) Sometime later, for no particular reason,

somebody shot that nice young President when he was ridin' in his car.

^rrhival Footaae. Dav.

SLOW MOTION - President Kennedy rises in a convertible and smiles. Forrest: And a few years after that...

Archival Footaae.

Robert Kennedy stands at apodium aspeople around him applaud. Forrest: (voice-over)... somebody shot his little brother, too,

only he was in a hotel kitchen.

1. Why do you think President Kennedy and his brother were assassinated?

2. What were the main achievements of the Kennedy administration?

Read to understand what crises marked the first two years of Kennedy's presidency.

On November 22,1963, when he was hardly past his first thousand days in office, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was killed by an assassin's bullets as his motorcade wound through Dallas, Texas. Kennedy was the youngest man elected President; he was the youngest to die. That afternoon, aboard an Air force jet bound for Washington, Vice President Lyndon Johnson was sworn in as the thirty-six President of the United States. In Dallas, Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested and charged with assassination. Two days later, millions watching a live television broadcast gasped in disbelief as they saw Oswald, under police escort, shot to death by Jack Ruby, a local nightclub operator.

Of Irish descent, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, on May 29, 1917. Graduating from Harvard in 1940, he entered the Navy. In 1943, when his PT boat was rammed and sunk by a Japanese destroyer, Kennedy, despite grave injuries, led the survivors through perilous waters to safety. Back

3.6 PRESIDENT KENNEDY Read the script and answer the questions.

Int. White House. Bathroom.

Forrest washes his hands, then notices an autographed from Marilyn Monroe and a photo of John with his brother

photo Bobby

Forrest: (voice*over) Sometime later, for no particular reason,

somebody shot that nice young President when he was ridin' in his car.

^rrhival Footaae. Dav.

SLOW MOTION - President Kennedy rises in a convertible and smiles. Forrest: And a few years after that...

Archival Footaae.

Robert Kennedy stands at apodium aspeople around him applaud. Forrest: (voice-over)... somebody shot his little brother, too,

only he was in a hotel kitchen.

1. Why do you think President Kennedy and his brother were assassinated?

2. What were the main achievements of the Kennedy administration?

Read to understand what crises marked the first two years of Kennedy's presidency.

On November 22,1963, when he was hardly past his first thousand days in office, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was killed by an assassin's bullets as his motorcade wound through Dallas, Texas. Kennedy was the youngest man elected President; he was the youngest to die. That afternoon, aboard an Air force jet bound for Washington, Vice President Lyndon Johnson was sworn in as the thirty-six President of the United States. In Dallas, Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested and charged with assassination. Two days later, millions watching a live television broadcast gasped in disbelief as they saw Oswald, under police escort, shot to death by Jack Ruby, a local nightclub operator.

Of Irish descent, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, on May 29, 1917. Graduating from Harvard in 1940, he entered the Navy. In 1943, when his PT boat was rammed and sunk by a Japanese destroyer, Kennedy, despite grave injuries, led the survivors through perilous waters to safety. Back

from the war, he became a Democratic Congressman from th Boston area, advancing in 1953 to the Senate. He marrie Jacqueline Bouvier on September 12, 1953. In 1955, whit recuperating from a back operation, he wrote "Profiles i Courage", which won the Pulitzer Prize in history.

In 1956 Kennedy almost gained the Democratic nomination lot Vice President, and four years later was a first-ballot nominee fo President. Millions watched his television debates with the Republican candidate, Richard M. Nixon. Winning by a narrow margin in the popular vote, Kennedy became the first Romafi Catholic President. His Inaugural Address offered the memorable injunction: "Ask not what your country can do for you - ask what you can do for your country," As President, he set out to redeem his campaign pledge to get America moving again. His economic programs launched the country on its longest sustained expansion since World War II; before his death, he laid plans for a massive assault on persisting pockets of privation and poverty.

Responding to ever more urgent demands, he took vigorous action in the cause of equal rights, calling for new civil rights legislation. His vision of America extended to the quality of the national culture and the central role of the arts in a vital sobiety. He wished America to resume its old mission as the first nation dedicated to the revolution of human rights. With the Alliance for Progress and the Peace Corps, he brought American idealism to the aid of developing nations. But the hard reality of the Communist challenge remained.

Shortly after his inauguration, Kennedy permitted a band of Cuban exiles, already armed and trained, to invade their homeland. The attempt to overthrow the regime of Fidel Castro was a failure. Soon thereafter, the Soviet Union renewed its campaign against West Berlin. Kennedy replied by reinforcing the Berlin garrison and increasing the Nation's military strength, including new efforts in outer space. Confronted by this reaction, Moscow, after the erection of the Berlin Wall, relaxed its pressure in central Europe. Instead, the Russians now sought to install nuclear missiles in Cuba. When

this was discovered by air reconnaissance in October 1962, Kennedy imposed a quarantine on all offensive weapons bound for Cuba. While the world trembled on the brink of nuclear war, the Russians backed down and agreed to take the missiles away.

Kennedy now contended that both sides had a vital interest in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and slowing'ihe arms race - a contention which led to the test ban treaty of 1963. The months after the Cuban crisis showed significant progress toward his goal of "a world of law and free choice, banishing the world of war and coercion." His administration thus saw the beginning of new hope for both the equal rights of Americans and the peace of the world. The Soviet Union launched numerous satellites in the late 1950s, pulling ahead in the race to explore space. In April 1961, Yuri Gagarin became the first person to orbit the Earth. Shortly afterward, President Kennedy pledged the United States to "launch a man on the moon and return him safely to earth" by 1970, On February 20, 1962, Lieutenant Colonel John Glenn was launched into orbit from Cape Canaveral, Florida. The National Aeronautic and Space Administration (NASA) permitted live press and television coverage of its manned flights.

How did President Kennedy begin to move toward his New Frontier goals in each of the following areas: space exploration, the economy, civil rights?

What developments increased tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union in 1961 and 1962? What was the purpose of Peace Corps and Alliance for Progress?

3.7 THE VIETNAM WAR Read the script and answer the questions.

Strongarm: (over radio) You're danger close for crack air, over. Forrest trips over something and falls to the ground. He looks up

to find two bloody legs. It is Lt. Dan, who is wounded. He spea into the radio.

Lt. Dan: (into radio) Roger, Strongarm, I know my position

. danger close! We got Charlie all over this area! I gott have those fast movers in here now! Over!

Strongarm: (over radio) Six, Strongarm, we want... Forrest: Lieutenant Dan, Coleman's dead!

Lt. Dan: I know he's dead! My whole goddamned platoon

wiped out!

Strongarm: (over radio) Leg Lima 6, Leg Lima 6, how copy yo

this transmission? Over. r*

Forrest tries to pick up Lt. Dan, who tries to push Forrest away**

Lt. Dan: Goddammit! What are you doing? Leave me here! Get away. Just leave me here! Get out!

Forrest pulls Lt. Dan over his shoulder and runs through the jungle.

Strongarm: Leg Lima 6, Leg Lima 6. This is Strongarm, be advised, your fast movers are inbound at this time, over. Forrest: (voice-over) Then it felt like something just jumped up

and bit me.

Forrest falls down.

Forrest: Ah, something bit me!

Forrest gets up as Lt. Dan yells. Lt. Dan fires his pistol at the unseen enemy as Forrest pulls him away.

Lt. Dan: You dink son-of-a-bitch! I can't leave the platoon! I told

you to leave me there, Gump. Forget about me. Get yourself out! Did you hear what I said! Goddammit, pull me down! Get your ass out of here!

Forrest drops Lt Dan down at the bank, next to the other wounded soldiers. Lt. Dan grabs Forrest by the shirt, angry.

Lt. Dan: I didn't ask you to pull me out of there, goddamn you!

What the hell do you think you're going? Forrest: To get Bubba.

Lt. Dan: I got an air strike inbound right now. They're gonna nape the whole area.

Forrest gets up and runs as Lt Dan yells after him.

Lt. Dan: Gump, you stay here, goddammit! That's an order! Forrest: I gotta find Bubba!

Forrest runs through the jungle searching for Bubba. Forrest slows down and looks around carefully

Bubba: Forrest...

Forrest: Bubba...

Bubba looks up as he lies on the ground.

Bubba: I'm okay.

Bubba holds a palm frond over his wound. Forrest removes the frond to look at the wound. Bubba's chest has been blown open. Forrest: Oh, Bubba, no...

Bubba: Naw, I'm gonna be all right.

Forrest looks around as he hear the voices of the enemy. Forrest: Come on. Come on. Come here...

Forrest carries Bubba through the jungle. The sound of approaching planes fills the air.

Bubba: I'm okay, Forrest. I'nrvall right.

The roar of approaching planes is deafening. Forrest looks up in fear. Three planes dive down toward the jungle. They fire napalm as thejungle explodes with massive fireballs. Forrest runs, carrying Bubba. The fireballs explode behind him. The entire jungle area is in flames as Forrest runs, Forrest carries Bubba to the bank of the river. Lt. Dan and the other wounded soldiers wait for a rescue helicopter.

Lt. Dan: Helo's inbound. Top smoke, get it up there!

Forrest: (voice-over) If I'd a known this was gonna be the last time me and Bubba was gonna talk, I'd a thought of

something better to say.

Forrest looks down at Bubba. A soldier releases a smoke canister.

Forrest: Hey, Bubba...

Bubba: Hey, Forrest. Forrest, why'd this happen?

Forrest: You got shot.

Forrest: (voice-over) Then Bubba said something I won't even forget. Bubba: I wanna go home.

Forrest: Bubba was my best good friend. And even I know that

ain't something you can find just around the corner. Bubba was gonna be a shrimpin' boat captain, but instead he died right there by that river in Vietnam.

The helicopter flies overhead.

1. What facts do you recall about the Vietnam war?

2. What is your opinion on the policy of sending aid t establish and maintain a prowestern democratic influence

Read to understand how United States involvement in the Vietnam war differed from its involvement in the Korean War, from its involvement in World War II. Hov. can you relate those differences to public attitudes toward each of the wars?

ignites American anti-Communist sentiment regarding Southeast Asia and will result in a White House foreign policy goal of "containment" of Communist expansion in the region.

1950

January 1950 - The People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union recognize Ho Chi Minh's Democratic Republic of Vietnam. China then begins sending military advisors and modern weapons to the Viet Minh including automatic weapons, mortars, howitzers, and trucks.

February 1950 - The United States and Britain recognize Bao Dai's French-controlled South Vietnam government.

February 7 , 1 9 5 0 - In America, the era of "McCarthyism" erupts as Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin gives a speech claiming the US State Department harbors Communists. As a consequence of McCarthyism, no US politician is willing to appear to be "soft" on Communism.

June 30, 1950 - President Harry S. Truman orders US ground troops into Korea following Communist North Korea's invasion of the South. In his message to the American people, Truman describes the invasion as a Moscow-backed attack by "monolithic world Communism."

July 26, 1950 - United States military involvement in Vietnam begins as President Harry Truman authorizes $15 million in military aid to the French.

1953

January 20, 1953 - Dwight D. Eisenhower, former five-star Army general and Allied commander in Europe during World War II, is inaugurated as the 34th US President. To justify America's financial commitment, Eisenhower will cite a "Domino Theory" in which a Communist victory in Vietnam would result in surrounding countries falling one after another like a "falling row of dominoes." The Domino Theory will be used by a succession of Presidents and their advisors to justify ever-deepening US involvement in Vietnam.

Seeds of Conflict (1945-1960)

1941

Communist activist Ho Chi Minh secretly returns to Vietnam after 30 years in exile and organizes a nationalist organization known as the Viet Minh (Vietnam Independence League).

1945

July 1945 - Following the defeat of Nazi Germany, World War II allies including the US, Britain, and Soviet Union, hold the Potsdam Conference in Germany to plan the post-war world. Vietnam is considered a minor item on the agenda. In order to disarm the Japanese in Vietnam, the Allies divide the country in half at the 16th parallel. Chinese Nationalists will move in and disarm the Japanese north of the parallel while the British will move in and do the same in the south. During the conference, representatives from France request the return of all French pre-war colonies in Southeast Asia (Indochina). Their request is granted. Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia will once again become French colonies following the removal of the Japanese, August 1945 - Japanese surrender unconditionally. Vietnam's puppet emperor, Bao Dai, abdicates. Ho Chi Minh's guerrillas occupy Hanoi and proclaim a provisional government.

1949

October 1949 - Mao Zedong's Communist forces defeat Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Army in the Chinese civil war. Mao's victory

ignites American anti-Communist sentiment regarding Southeast Asia and will result in a White House foreign policy goal of "containment" of Communist expansion in the region.

1950

January 1950 - The People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union recognize Ho Chi Minh's Democratic Republic of Vietnam. China then begins sending military advisors and modern weapons to the Viet Minh including automatic weapons, mortars, howitzers, and trucks.

February 1950 - The United States and Britain recognize Bao Dai's French-controlled South Vietnam government.

February 7 , 1 9 5 0 - In America, the era of "McCarthyism" erupts as Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin gives a speech claiming the US State Department harbors Communists. As a consequence of McCarthyism, no US politician is willing to appear to be "soft" on Communism.

June 30, 1950 - President Harry S. Truman orders US ground troops into Korea following Communist North Korea's invasion of the South. In his message to the American people, Truman describes the invasion as a Moscow-backed attack by "monolithic world Communism."

July 26, 1950 - United States military involvement in Vietnam begins as President Harry Truman authorizes $15 million in military aid to the French.

1953

January 20, 1953 - Dwight D. Eisenhower, former five-star Army general and Allied commander in Europe during World War II, is inaugurated as the 34th US President. To justify America's financial commitment, Eisenhower will cite a "Domino Theory" in which a Communist victory in Vietnam would result in surrounding countries falling one after another like a "falling row of dominoes." The Domino Theory will be used by a succession of Presidents and their advisors to justify ever-deepening US involvement in Vietnam.

Seeds of Conflict (1945-1960)

1941

Communist activist Ho Chi Minh secretly returns to Vietnam after 30 years in exile and organizes a nationalist organization known as the Viet Minh (Vietnam Independence League).

1945

July 1945 - Following the defeat of Nazi Germany, World War II allies including the US, Britain, and Soviet Union, hold the Potsdam Conference in Germany to plan the post-war world. Vietnam is considered a minor item on the agenda. In order to disarm the Japanese in Vietnam, the Allies divide the country in half at the 16th parallel. Chinese Nationalists will move in and disarm the Japanese north of the parallel while the British will move in and do the same in the south. During the conference, representatives from France request the return of all French pre-war colonies in Southeast Asia (Indochina). Their request is granted. Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia will once again become French colonies following the removal of the Japanese, August 1945 - Japanese surrender unconditionally. Vietnam's puppet emperor, Bao Dai, abdicates. Ho Chi Minh's guerrillas occupy Hanoi and proclaim a provisional government.

1949

October 1949 - Mao Zedong's Communist forces defeat Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist Army in the Chinese civil war. Mao's victory

July 27,1953 - The Korean War ends as an armistice is signed dividing the country at the 38th parallel into Communist North and Democratic South. The armistice is seen by many in the international community as a potential model for resolving the ongoing conflict in Vietnam.

1955

January 1955 - The first direct shipment of US military aid to

Saigon arrives. The US also offers to train the fledgling South Vietnam Army.

July 1955 - Ho Chi Minh visits Moscow and agrees to accept Soviet aid.

1957

January 1957 - The Soviet Union proposes permanent division of Vietnam into North and South, with the two nations admitted separately to the United Nations. The US rejects the proposal, unwilling to recognize Communist North Vietnam.

America Commits (1961-1964)

1961

January 1961 - Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev pledges support for "wars of national liberation" throughout the world. His statement greatly encourages Communists in North Vietnam to escalate their armed struggle to unify Vietnam under Ho Chi Minh.

January 20, 1961 - John Fitzgerald Kennedy is inaugurated as the 35th US President and declares "...we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe, to insure the survival and the success of liberty." October 1961 - To get a first-hand look at the deteriorating military situation, top Kennedy aides, Maxwell Taylor and Walt Rostow, visit Vietnam. "If Vietnam goes, it will be exceedingly difficult to hold Southeast Asia," Taylor reports to the President and advises Kennedy to expand the number of US military advisors and to send 8,000 combat soldiers.

December 1961 - Viet Cong guerrillas now control much of the countryside in South Vietnam and frequently ambush South Vietnamese troops.

1963

November 22, 1963 - President John F Kennedy is assassinated in Dallas. Lyndon B. Johnson is sworn in as the 36th US President. He is the fourth President coping with Vietnam and will oversee massive escalation of the war while utilizing many of the same policy advisors who served Kennedy.

1964

Summer - As 56,000 Viet Cong spread their successful guerrilla war throughout South Vietnam* they are reinforced by North Vietnamese Army (NVA) regulars pouring in via the Ho Chi Minh trail. Responding to this escalation, President Johnson approves Operation Plan 34A, CIA-run covert operations using South Vietnamese commandos in speed boats to harass radar sites along the coastline of North Vietnam.

The Jungle War (1965-1968)

1965

January 1965 - Operation Game Warden begins US Navy river patrols on Sjouth Vietnam's 3,000 nautical miles of inland waterways.

February 4, 1965 - National Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy visits South Vietnam for the first time. In North Vietnam, Soviet Prime Minister Aleksei Kosygin coincidentally arrives in Hanoi.

February 6 , 1 9 6 5 - Viet Cong guerrillas attack the US military compound at Pleiku in the Central Highlands, killing eight Americans, woundingfJ?6 and destroying ten aircraft. February 7 - 8 - "I've had enough of this," President Johnson tells his National Security advisors. He then approves Operation Flaming Dart, the bombing of a North Vietnamese army camp near Dong Hoi by US Navy jets from the carrier Ranger. In Hanoi,

Soviet Prime Minister Kosygin is pressured by the Nort Vietnamese to provide unlimited military aid to counter th American "aggression". Kosygin gives in to their demands. As af result, sophisticated Soviet surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) begin arriving in Hanoi within weeks.

March 8, 1965 -The first US combat troops arrive in Vietnam as 3,500 Marines land at China Beach to defend the American air base at Da Nang. They join 23,000 American military advisor already in Vietnam.

March 9, 1965 - President Johnson authorizes the use of Napalm, a petroleum based anti-personnel bomb that showers hundreds of explosive pellets upon impact.

August 18-24, 1965 - Operation Starlite begins the first major US ground operation in Vietnam as US Marines wage a preemptive

strike against 1,500 Viet Cong planning to assault the American airfield at Chu Lai. The Marines arrive by helicopter and by sea following heavy artillery and air bombardment of Viet Cong positions. 45 Marines are killed and 120 wounded. Viet Cong suffer 614 dead and 9 taken prisoner. This decisive first victory gives a big boost to US troop morale.

August 31, 1965 - President Johnson signs a law criminalizing draft card burning. Although it may result in a five year prison sentence and $1,000 fine, the burnings become common during anti-war rallies and often attract the attention of news media. October 16,1965 - Anti-war rallies occur in 40 American cities and in international cities including London and Rome.

1966

In 1966, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee holds hearings on the conduct of the war. The hearings show that even government officials are sharply divided between those who support the war ('hawks') and those who opposed American involvement ('doves'). The "hawks" maintain that the war has been forced on the United States by North Vietnamese aggression against the South. They claim that the US, in fighting communism in South Vietnam, is preventing a communist takeover of all Southeast Asia. "Doves" argue that the US has no compelling

reason to justify the enormous sacrifice in lives and money, they point at the staggering costs of the war - $20 billion in 1967 alone. Rising defense budgets put pressure on Johnson to cut back on his great Society social programs.

January 31, 1966 - Senator Robert F. Kennedy criticizes President Johnson's decision to resume the bombing, stating that the US may be headed "on a road from which there is no turning back, a road that leads to catastrophe for all mankind." His comments infuriate the President.

1967

September 11 - October 31 - US Marines are besieged by NVA at Con Thien located two miles south of the Demilitarized Zone. A massive long-range artillery duel then erupts between NVA and US guns during the siege as NVA fire 42,000 rounds at the Marines while the US responds with 281,000 rounds and B-52 air strikes to lift the siege. NVA losses are estimated at over 2,000.

October 1967 - A public opinion poll indicates 46 percent of Americans now believe US military involvement in Vietnam to be

a "mistake". However, most Americans also believe that the US should "win or get out" of Vietnam.

October 2 1 - 2 3 - "March on the Pentagon" draws 55,000 protesters. In London, protesters try to storm the US embassy. October 31, 1967 - President Johnson reaffirms his commitment to maintain US involvement in South Vietnam.

1968

January 2 1 , 1968 - 20,000 NVA troops under the command of Gen. Giap attack the American air base at Khe Sanh. A 77 day siege begins as 5,000 US Marines in the isolated outpost are encircled. The siege attracts enormous media attention back in America, with many comparisons made to the 1954 Battle of

Dien Bien Phu in which the French were surrounded then defeated. Operation Niagara II begins: a massive aerial supply effort to the besieged Marines along with heavy B-52 bombardment of NVAtroop positions. At the peak of the battle,

A soldiers are hit round-the-clock every 90 minutes by grou of three B-52s which drop over 110,000 tons of bombs durin thesiege,theheaviestbombardmentofasmallareainthehisto of warfare.

January 31, 1968 - The turning point of the war occurs 84,000 Viet Cong guerrillas aided by NVA troops launch the T Offensive attacking a hundred cities and towns throughout Sout

Vietnam. The surprise offensive is closely observed by Americ TV news crews in Vietnam which film the US embassy in Saigo. being attacked by 17 Viet Cong commandos, along with blood scenes from battle areas showing American soldiers under finer, dead and wounded. The graphic color film footage is then quick' relayed back to the states for broadcast on nightly news programs! Americans at home thus have a front row seat in their living rooms to the Viet Cong / NVA assaults against their fathers, sons and brothers, ten thousand miles away.

February 2 7 , 1 9 6 8 - Influential CBS TV news anchorman Walter Cronkite, who just returned from Saigon, tells Americans during his CBS Evening News broadcast that he is certain "the bloody experience of Vietnam is to end in a stalemate."

March 14, 1968 - Senator Robert F. Kennedy offers President

Johnson a confidential political proposition. Kennedy will agree to stay out of the presidential race if Johnson will renounce his earlier Vietnam strategy and appoint a committee, including Kennedy, to chart a new course in Vietnam. Johnson spurns the offer.

March 1 6 , 1 9 6 8 - Robert F. Kennedy announces his candidacy for the presidency. Polls indicate Kennedy is now more popular than the President. During his campaign, Kennedy addresses the issue of his participation in forming President John F. Kennedy's Vietnam policy by stating, "past error is no excuse for its own perpetuation."

March 25, 1968 - Defense Secretary Clark Clifford convenes the "Wise Men", a dozen distinguished elder statesmen and soldiers, including former Secretary of State Dean Acheson and World War II General Omar Bradley at the State Department for dinner. They are given a blunt assessment of the situation in Vietnam, including the widespread corruption of the Saigon

government and the unlikely prospect for military victory "under the present circumstances."

March 31, 1968 - President Johnson stuns the world by announcing his surprise decision not to seek re-election. He also announces a partial bombing halt and urges Hanoi to begin peace talks. "We are prepared to move immediately toward peace through negotiations." As a result, peace talks soon begin. The bombing halt only affects targets north of the 20th parallel, including Hanoi.

April 4 , 1 9 6 8 - Civil rights leader Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King is assassinated inMemphis. Racial unrest then erupts in over 100 American cities.

April 23, 1968 - Anti-war activists at Columbia University seize five buildings.

May 1 0 , 1 9 6 8 - Peace talks begin in Paris but soon stall as the US insists that North Vietnamese troops withdraw from the South, while the North Vietnamese insist on Viet Cong participation in a coalition government in South Vietnam. This marks the beginning of five years of on-again off-again official talks between the US and North Vietnam in Paris.

June 5 , 1 9 6 8 - Robert F. Kennedy is shot and mortally wounded in Los Angeles by a young Palestinian Sirhan Sirhan, angered by Kennedy's support of Israel, just after winning the California Democratic presidential primary election.

July 1968 - Congress passes a ten percent income tax surcharge to defray the ballooning costs of the war.

August 8 , 1 9 6 8 - Richard M. Nixon is chosen as the Riepublican presidential candidate and promises "an honorable end to the war in Vietnam."

August 28, 1968 - During the Democratic national convention in Chicago, 10,000 anti-war protesters gather on downtown streets and are then confronted by 26,000 police and national guardsmen. The brutal crackdown is covered live on network TV. 800 demonstrators are injured. The United States is now experiencing a level of social unrest unseen since the American Civil War era, a hundred years earlier. There have been 221 student protests at 101 colleges and universities thus far in 1968.

November 5, 1.968— Republican Richard M. Nixon narrowly defeats Democrat Hubert Humphrey in the US presidential election.. November 27, 1968 - President-elect Nixon asks Harvard? professor Henry Kissinger to be his National Security Advisor. Kissinger accepts.

The Bitter End (1969-1975)

1969

January 20, 1969 - Richard M. Nixon is inaugurated as the 37th US President and declares "...the greatest honor history can bestow is the title of peacemaker. This honor now beckons America..."

September 2, 1969 - Ho Chi Minh dies of a heart attack at age 79. He is succeeded by Le Duan, who publicly reads the last will of Ho Chi Minh urging the North Vietnamese to fight on "until the last Yankee has gone."

September 5, 1969 - The US Army brings murder charges against Lt. William Calley concerning the massacre of Vietnamese civilians at My Lai in March of 1968.

September 1 6 , 1 9 6 9 - President Nixon orders the withdrawal of 35,000 soldiers from Vietnam and a reduction in draft calls. October 1969 - An opinion poll indicates 71 percent of Americans approve of President Nixon's Vietnam policy. October 1 5 , 1 9 6 9 - The "Moratorium" peace demonstration is held in Washington and several US cities.

December 1 , 1 9 6 9 - The first draft lottery since World War II is held in New York City. Each day of the year is assigned a number. Those with birthdays on days with low numbers will likely be drafted.

1970

March 18, 1970 - Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia is deposed by General Lon Nol Sihanouk, who had been out of the country at the time of the coup, then aligns with Cambodian Communists, known as the Khmer Rouge, in an effort to oust Lon Nol's regime. The Khmer Rouge are led by an unknown figure named Pol Po+ who eagerly capitalizes on the enormous prestige and popularity

of Prince Sihanouk to increase support for his Khmer Rouge movement among Cambodians. Pol Pot will later violently oust Lon Nol then begin a radical experiment to create an agrarian utopia, resulting in the deaths of 25 percent of the country's population (2,000,000 persons) from starvation, overwork and systematic executions.

March 2 0 , 1 9 7 0 - Cambodian troops under Gen. Lon Nol attack Khmer Rouge and North Vietnamese forces inside Cambodia. At the White House, Nixon and top aides discuss plans to assist Lon Nol's pro-American regime.

April 3 0 , 1 9 7 0 - President Nixon stuns Americans by announcing US and South Vietnamese incursion into Cambodia. The announcement generates a tidal wave of protest by politicians, the press, students, professors, clergy members, business leaders, and many average Americans against Nixon and the Vietnam War.

1972

January 25, 1972 - President Nixon announces a proposed eight point peace plan for Vietnam and also reveals that Kissinger has been secretly negotiating with the North Vietnamese. However, Hanoi rejects Nixon's peace overture.

February 2 1 - 2 8 - President Nixon visits China and meets with Mao Zedong and Prime Minister Zhou Enlai to forge new diplomatic relations with the Communist nation. Nixon's visit causes great concern in Hanoi that their wartime ally China might be inclined to agree to an unfavorable settlement of the war to improve Chinese relations with the US

1973

January 27, 1973 - The Paris Peace Accords are signed by the US, North Vietnam, South Vietnam and the Viet Cong. Under the terms, the US agrees to immediately halt all military activities and withdraw all remaining military personnel within 60 days. The North Vietnamese agree to an immediate cease- fire and the release of all American prisoners of war (POWs) within 60 days. Vietnam is still divided. South Vietnam is

considered to be one country with two governments, one li by President Thieu, the other led by Viet Cong, pending futur reconciliation.

March 2 9 , 1 9 7 3 - The last remaining American troops withdr from Vietnam as President Nixon declares "the day we have a worked and prayed for has finally come." America's longest war and its first defeat, thus concludes. During 15 years of milita involvement, over 2 million Americans served in Vietnam wit' 500,000 seeing actual combat. 47,244 were killed in action. Ther

were 10,446 non-combat deaths. 153,329 were seriously wounded including 10,000 amputees.

July 17, 1973 - Secretary of Defense James Schlesinge testifies before the Armed Forces Committee that 3,500 bombing raids were launched into Cambodia to protect American troops by targeting NVA positions. The extent of Nixon's secret bombing campaign angers many in Congress and results in the first calf

for Nixon's impeachment.

August 14, 1973 - US bombing activities in Cambodia are halted in accordance with the Congressional ban resulting from the Case-Church amendment.

August 22, 1973 - Henry Kissinger is appointed by President Nixon as the new Secretary of State, replacing William Rogers.

1974

May 9, 1974 - Congress begins impeachment proceedings against President Nixon stemming from the Watergate scandal. August 9, 1974 - Richard M. Nixon resigns the presidency as result of Watergate. Gerald R. Ford is sworn in as the 38th US President, becoming the 6th President coping with Vietnam. September 1974 - The US Congress appropriates only $700 million for South Vietnam. This leaves the South Vietnamese Army under-funded and results in a decline of military readiness and morale.

1975

April 2 3 , 1 9 7 5 - 100,000 NVA soldiers advance on Saigon which is now overflowing with refugees.

April 2 7 , 1 9 7 5 - Saigon is encircled. 30,000 South Vietnamese soldiers are inside the city but are leaderless. NVA fire rockets into downtown civilian areas as the city erupts into chaos and widespread looting.

April 28, 1975 - "Neutralist" General Duong Van "Big" Minh becomes the new president of South Vietnam and appeals for a cease-fire. His appeal is ignored.

April 2 9 , 1 9 7 5 - President Ford now orders Operation Frequent Wind, the helicopter evacuation of 7,000 Americans and South Vietnamese from Saigon, which begins with the radio broadcast of the song "White Christmas" as a pre-arraigned code signal. At Tan Son Nhut, frantic civilians begin swarming the helicopters. The evacuation is then shifted to the walled-in American embassy, which is secured by US Marines in full combat gear. But the scene there also deteriorates, as thousands of civilians attempt to get into the compound. Three US aircraft carriers stand by off the coast of Vietnam to handle incoming Americans and South Vietnamese refugees. Many South Vietnamese pilots also land on the carriers, flying American-made helicopters which are then pushed overboard to make room for more arrivals. Filmed footage of the $250,000 choppers being tossed into the sea becomes an enduring image of the war's end.

April 3 0 , 1 9 7 5 - At 8:35 a.m., the last Americans, ten Marines from the embassy, depart Saigon, concluding the United States presence in Vietnam. North Vietnamese troops pour into Saigon and encounter little resistance. President Minh broadcasts a message of unconditional surrender. The war is over. North and South Vietnam are reunited under Soviet rule.

• List the actions taken in Vietnam by Presidents Bsenhower and Kennedy.

• What two actions did President Johnson take in March 1968 in response to growing opposition in the war in Vietnam?

• Who were the "hawks"? Who were the "doves"? What arguments did they use to support their position?

• How did the Gulf of Tonkin resolution mark a turning point in the Vietnam conflict?

What factors contributed to American involvement Vietnam? What caused opposition to the war increase?

3.8 A MORE MILITANT BLACK MOVEMENT

Read the script and answer the questions.

Int. Black Panther Headquarters. Storefront. Washington DC. Nigl

Forrest stands at an open window and looks at the Whit House.

Forrest: (voice-over) Jenny and me were just peas and carrot

again. She showed me around, and even introduced

to some of her new friends.

A Black Panther, named Ruben, steps over and pulls the shade. down.

Ruben: Shut that blind, man. And get your white ass away fro

that window. Don't you know we in war here?

Another Black Panther named Masai grabs Forrest and pat$ him down. > Jenny: Hey man, he's cool. He's cool. He's one of us. He's one

of us.

Masai: Let me tell you about us.

Wesley: Where the hell have you been?

Jenny: I ran into a friend.

Masai: Our purpose here isto protect our black leaders from

the racial onslaught of the pig who wishes to brutalize our black leaders, rape our women, and destroy our black communists.

Black Panther: Masai, phone. Talk to these guys.

Wesley: Who's the baby killer?

Jenny: This is my good friend I told you about. This is Forrest

Gump. Forrest, this is Wesley. Wesley and I live together! in Berkeley, and he's the president of the Berkeley chapter of S.D.S.

Masai: Let me tell you something else.

Wesley: I want to talk to you.

jenny: Okay, but...

Wesley: No. Now! Goddammit!

Masai: We are here to offer protection and help for all of those

who need our help, because we, the Black Panthers, are against the war in Vietnam. Yes, we are against any war where, black'soldiers are sent to the front line to die for a country that hates them. Yes, we are against any war where black soldiers go to fight and come to be brutalized and killed in their own communities as they sleep in their beds at night. Yes, we are against all these racists and imperial dog acts.

1. Why did some black leaders demand more radical tactics against segregation?

2. What effect do you think the militant black civil rights movement had on other minorities?

Read to understand why the black civil rights movement became more militant.

After 1963, a growing number of African American leaders came to believe that nonviolent tactics did not work fast enough. These radical leaders were especially concerned with the problems of northern blacks. De facto segregation, that is, segregation created by housing patterns, not by law, kept most northern blacks in run-down ghettos, where they lived in decaying buildings with inadequate plumbing and heating. Although the average income of blacks had risen since 1950, their incomes remained lower than those of whites and their unemployment rate was higher.

Radicals demanded immediate and drastic action to wipe out such conditions. One group, the Black Muslims, believed that African Americans should separate completely from white society. These views were spread in the early 1960s by a Black Muslim minister named Malcolm X. By 1964, however, Malcolm X had rejected separatism in favor of "a society in which there could

exist honest white-black brotherhood," Malcolm X was shot a killed in February 1965, presumably as the result of his disp with the Black Muslims. His ideas, expressed in the "Autobiogra of Malcolm X" have remained influential.

Militant black leaders such as Stokley Carmichael and Flo McKissick rejected cooperation with whites and instead issued demand for "black power." Blacks, they argued, should take contr of the economic and political aspects of their lives even if it requir violent revolution. The Black Panthers urged their black "brothe to arm themselves and to fight for their rights when necessary.

While accepting the idea of black power, moderate black lead stressed that it should take the form of self-reliance and prid not violence. Opinion polls revealed that most African American preferred the goal of integration and favored the more moderat interpretation of black power. However, the more violent languag of the radical groups attracted widespread attention.

By the middle of the decade, frustration and despair in blac ghettos erupted into violence. In the summer of 1964, rioting tore through Harlem and Rochester, New York. In August 1965, even greater violence exploded in the Los Angeles ghetto known as: Watts. Rioting, burning, and looting raged for five days. By the time 14,000 troops of the National Guard restored order, 34 people were dead, 4,000 were arrested, and property damage was $35 million. In 1966 and 1967, riots broke out in the major cities, including Newark, Cincinnati, Atlanta, and Detroit. The riots caused great destruction and despair in the black communities where they occurred. They also increased "white backlash," or negative feelings toward blacks' demand for equality.

focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump 3.9 NIXON'S FOREIGN POLICY

Read the script and answer the questions.

int. Veterans Administration Hospital. Rec Room. Dav.

A footage of Neil Armstrong's first step on the moon on television.

Neil Armstrong: That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. The, uh, the surface is fine and powdery. I can, I can pick it up loosely.

Forrest demonstrates a ping-pong to some wounded vets.

Forrest: (voice-over) I thought I was going back to Vietnam, but instead, they decided the best way for me to fight communists was to play ping-pong. So I was in the Special Services, traveling around the country cheering up all them wounded veterans and showing them how to play...

Bus Stop. Present. Dav.

Forrest looks at a man.

Forrest: ... ping-pong. I was so good that some years later...

Ext. China. Ping-pong Tournament. Flashback. Dav

Forrest plays ping-pong against a Chinese player. A large mural of Mao Zedong hangs on the wall. A crowd of communist leaders sit and watch. -

Forrest: (voice-over) ... the Army decided I should be on the

Ail-American Ping-Pong Team. We were the first Americans to visit the land of China in like a million years or something like that, and somebody said that world peace was in our hands. But all I did was play ping-pong.

1. Why was the US Moon Programme a giant leap for the mankind?

Why did the US begin to persue a policy of detente with the People's Republic of China in the 1970s?

80

81

Why did African Americans abandon the nonviolent tactics

of Martin Luther King? 2. What tactics did militant blacks advocate?

• What were two important results of the rioting by urban ; blacks?

3.9 NIXON'S FOREIGN POLICY

Read the script and answer the questions.

int. Veterans Administration Hospital. Rec Room. Dav.

A footage of Neil Armstrong's first step on the moon on television.

Neil Armstrong: That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. The, uh, the surface is fine and powdery. I can, I can pick it up loosely.

Forrest demonstrates a ping-pong to some wounded vets.

Forrest: (voice-over) I thought I was going back to Vietnam, but instead, they decided the best way for me to fight communists was to play ping-pong. So I was in the Special Services, traveling around the country cheering up all them wounded veterans and showing them how to play...

Bus Stop. Present. Dav.

Forrest looks at a man.

Forrest: ... ping-pong. I was so good that some years later...

Ext. China. Ping-pong Tournament. Flashback. Dav

Forrest plays ping-pong against a Chinese player. A large mural of Mao Zedong hangs on the wall. A crowd of communist leaders sit and watch. -

Forrest: (voice-over) ... the Army decided I should be on the

Ail-American Ping-Pong Team. We were the first Americans to visit the land of China in like a million years or something like that, and somebody said that world peace was in our hands. But all I did was play ping-pong.

1. Why was the US Moon Programme a giant leap for the mankind?

Why did the US begin to persue a policy of detente with the People's Republic of China in the 1970s?

Read to understand how President Nixon's foreign poli redefined the American role in the world community.

Following the communist victory in China's civil war, there was direct contact between the People's Republic of China and the Unit States for more than 20 years. When relations between the countries thawed during the early 1970s, teenagers on an Amerk table tennis team became the first American visitors to China.

President Nixon had been a strong anticommunist throughout political career. But the split that developed between China ai the Soviet Union in the late 1950s provided an opportunity for t United States to make diplomatic gains. In July 1971, Hen Kissinger, the chief White House foreign policy adviser, made

secret trip to China to arrange a visit by President Nixon th following February. Nixon and Kissinger believed that the worl could no longer be viewed as divided into two opposing commun and noncommunist blocks. Rather, there were now many cente of power, including Europe, Japan, China, the Middle East, th Soviet Union, and the United States. Accordingly, United Stat foreign policy should pursue different goals with each of thes power centers. In a policy that became known as the Nixo doctrine, the President stated; The United States will participate in the defense and development of allies and friends, but canno - and will not - conceive all the plans, design all the programs* execute all the decisions and undertake all the defense of thai free nations of the world. We will help where it will make a real

difference and is considered in our interest.

During Nixon's visit, he toured the Great Wall of China, attended banquets, and met with Chinese leader Mao Zedong. The two leaders agreed on scientific and cultural exchanges and expressed an interest in increasing trade. A year later, China and the United States took steps toward formal recognition.

Any change in the Unites States relationship with China was bound to affect its relationship with China's rival, the Soviet Union.

Consequently, Nixon made a gesture to improve relations with Moscow. In May 1972, he visited the Soviet Union, thefirst President to do so since World War II. His trip marked the beginning of an era of detente, a relaxation of tension between the two superpowers.

While in Moscow, Nixon and Brezhnev signed an arms control agreement, the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT). This treaty restricted the types and numbers of nuclear warheads and missiles that each country could deploy. President Nixon's visit also opened new avenues of international cooperation and the sale of American what to the Soviet Union. Most Americans, eager to reduce international tensions and the threat of nuclear war, approved of detente.

82

83

focus ort American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump

• •

What was Nixon's approach to foreign policy? Describe the Nixon doctrine.

What agreement did Nixon reach with China during the 1972 visit?

Why would Nixon's reputation as an anticommunist have helped him win acceptance of his foreign policy?

3.10 THEWATERGATECRISIS

Read the script and answer the questions.

Ext. White House. Niaht.

An ANCHORMAN reports in front of the White House.

Anchorman: The US Ping-Pong Team met with President Nixon today at an Oval Office ceremony...

Forrest: (voice-over) And wouldn't you know it...

Present. Bus Stop.

Forrest looks at the fat man on the bus bench.

Forrest: ... a few months later they invited me and the ping- pong team to visit the White House. So I went again. And I met the President of the United States again.

Int. White House. Day.

A plaque, presented to Forrest, reads "Presented to Forrest Gum, member of the United States table tennis team as player of t year for 1971". President Nixon holds the plaque.

Forrest: (voice-over) Only this time they didn't get us rooms i

a real fancy hotel.

President Nixon: So are you enjoying yourself in our nation

capital, young man? Forrest: Yes, sir.

President Nixon: Well, where are you staying?

Forrest: It's called the Hotel Ebbott.

President: Oh, no, no, no, no. I know of a much nicer hotel. It'

Nixon brand-new. Very modern. I'll have my people tak care of it for you.

Int. Watergate Hotel Room. Night.

Forrest speaks on the phone.

Security Guard: Security, Frank Wills.

Forrest steps over to a window. Flashlights are moving around in an office across from Forrest's room.

Forrest: Yeah, sir, you might want to send a maintenance man

over to that office across the way. The lights are off, and they must be looking for the fus# box or something, 'cause them flashlights they're, they're keeping me awake.

Security Guard: Okay, sir. I'll check it out. Forrest: Thank you.

Security Guard: No problem.

Forrest: Good night.

Security Guard: Good night.

Forrest hangs up the phone. The camera tilts down, revealing the hotel stationary, which reads "The Watergate Hotel."

Int. Gymnasium. Day.

President Nixon makes a resignation speech on TV.

President Nixon: (over television) Therefore, I shall resign the Presidency effective at noon tomorrow.

The television cuts to a shot of President Nixon standing outside Air Force One with his hands in the peace sign.

president Nixon: (over television) Vice President Ford will be

sworn in as President at that hour in this office. As I recall the high hopes for America with which we began this second term, I feel a great sadness that I will not be here in this office...

1. What caused President Nixon's resignation?

2. Why did the Watergate affair get such a name?

Read to understand what actions ted to calls for President Nixon's impeachment.

Reconciliation was the first goal set by President Richard M. Nixon. The Nation was painfully divided, with turbulence in the cities and war overseas. During his Presidency, Nixon succeeded in ending American fighting in Vietnam and improving relations with the USSR and China. But the Watergate scandal brought fresh divisions to the country and ultimately led to his resignation. His election in 1968 had climaxed a career unusual on two counts: his early success and his comeback after being defeated for President in 1960 and for Governor of California in 1962.

Born in California in 1913, Nixon had a brilliant record at Whittier College and Duke University Law School before beginning the practice of law. In 1940, he married Patricia Ryan; they had two daughters, Patricia (Tricia) and Julie. During World War II, Nixon served as a Navy lieutenant commander in the Pacific. On leaving the service, he was elected to Congress from his California district. In 1950, he won a Senate seat. Two years later, General Eisenhower selected Nixon, age 39, to be his running mate. As Vice President, Nixon took on major duties in the Eisenhower Administration. Nominated for President by acclamation in 1960, he lost by a nanow margin to John F. Kennedy. In 1968, he again won his party's nomination, and went on to defeat Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey and third-party candidate George C Wallace.

His accomplishments while in office included revenue sharing, th end of the draft, new anticrime laws, and a broad environment program. As he had promised, he appointed Justices conservative philosophy to the Supreme Court. One of the mo dramatic events of his first term occurred in 1969, when America astronauts made the first moon landing.

In his 1972 bid for office, Nixon defeated Democratic candidat George McGovern by one of the widest margins on record. Withi a few months, his administration was embattled over the so-call "Watergate" scandal, stemming from a break-in at the offices the Democratic National Committee, located in the Watergat apartment complex, during the 1972 campaign. The break-i was traced to officials of the Committee to Re-elect the President. A number of administration officials resigned; some were later convicted of offenses connected with efforts to cover up the affair. Nixon denied any personal involvement, but the courts forced him to yield tape recordings which indicated that he had, in fact*

tried to divert the investigation. The evidence of the President's involvement in the Watergate cover-up was clear: only days after, the burglary, Nixon had ordered the FBI to stop its investigation of the break-in.

As a result of unrelated scandals in Maryland, Vice President Spiro T. Agnew resigned in 1973. Nixon nominated, and Congress approved, House Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford as Vice President. The Judiciary Committee passed three articles of impeachment against the President. The articles claimed that Nixon had obstructed justice, misused his presidential powers, and refused to comply with the committee's request for evidence. Faced with what seemed almost certain impeachment, Nixon announced on August 8,1974, that he would resign the next day to begin "that process of healing which is so desperately needed in America." The Watergate crisis demonstrated the strength of the system of checks and balances. Congress and the Supreme Court had successfully checked the power of the President when he appeared to be abusing that power. The balance of powers outlined in the constitution had been maintained

Even before Watergate, some critics had charged that recent presidents were creating an "imperial presidency" by assuming too much power. During the Nixon years, the White House staff grew to 500 persons, more than double the size of any previous presidential staff. The events of Watergate brought demands for reform. The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Act of 1974 revised congressional budget-making practices and forbade a president to impound funds appropriated by Congress. The Federal Campaign Reform Act of 1974 provided tax funds for candidates for federal office and placed limits on private campaign contributions. Congress also strengthened the 1966 Freedom of Information Act, giving the public greater access to information on government activities.

86

87

Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump

•

What were the major stages of Nixon's remarkable political career?

How did a break-in of Democratic party headquarters in Washington, D.C., lead to a Senate investigation that shocked the nation?

Why were the tapes important in the Watergate case? What charges did the House Judiciary Committee make against Nixon?

With what laws did the Congress respond to Watergate? How did the Watergate affair demonstrate the strength of the system of checks and balances?

3.11 THE FORD ADMINISTRATION

Read the script and answer the questions.

Ext. Boat.

Forrest and Lt Dan have dinner on the deck. The television shows an assassination attempton President Gerald Ford. Anchorman: (over television) For the second time in seventeen

days, President Ford escaped possible assassination today when a woman, Sarah Jane Moore, fired on him as he stepped out of a hotel in San Francisco.

Ext. River. Night.

Jenny and Forrest sit on a log together and took at the ri Jenny places her arms around Forrest

Forrest: (voice-over) And it was the happiest time of my life. The fireworks explode in the sky.

Int. Gump's House. Night.

The Statue of Liberty is shown on the TV. Fireworks go off. Forre and Jenny are watching the 4th of July celebration on TV. Announcer: (over television) And this Fourth is witnessing on

of the largest fireworks displays in the nation's two

hundred year history... Jenny: You done watching it?

Forrest: Mm-hmm.

Announcer: (over television) ...here in New York Harbor. After

the spectacular display of tall ships earlier, the Statue of

Liberty...

Jenny stands up and kisses Forrest on the cheek.

Jenny: I'm going to bed.

Jenny turns off the TV and walks outside. Forrest stands as he puts down his Dr. Pepper. Jenny walks toward the stairs. Forrest: Will you marry me? I'd make a good husband, Jenny. Jenny: You would, Forrest.

Forrest: But you won't marry me.

Jenny: You don't want to marry me.

Forrest: Why don't you love me, Jenny? I'm not a smart man,

but I know what love is.

Forrest turns and walks toward the door. Jenny turns and walks up the stairs. Forrest stands outside.

1. A month after taking office, President Ford issued a pardon that freed Richard Nixon from prosecution from any crimes he might have committed while in office. Do you think it was this pardon that set a storm of controversy and provoked attempts on the president?

2. Do you think that President Ford's pardon of Nixon benefited or harmed the nation? Explain.

Bead to understand how President Ford attempted to

deal with economic and political problems.

When Gerald R. Ford took the oath of office on August 9,1974, he declared, "I assume the Presidency under extraordinary circumstances.... This is an hour of history that troubles our minds and hurts our hearts." It was indeed an unprecedented time. He had been the first Vice President chosen under the terms of the Twenty-fifth Amendment and, in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, was succeeding the first President ever to resign. The president's honesty and goodwill helped the nation recover from the Watergate affair. Most Americans welcomed the positive mood as they celebrated the United States bicentennial on July 4,1976. President Ford told Americans to "break out the flag, strike up the band, light up the sky," for the bicentennial, and the nation gladly complied. In New York City, old-fashioned sailing ships from many countries sailed through the harbor. "Operation Sail" ended with a spectacular fireworks display at the Statue of Liberty,

Ford was confronted with almost insuperable tasks. There were the challenges of mastering inflation, reviving a depressed economy, solving chronic energy shortages, and trying to ensure world peace. The President acted to curb the trend toward Government intervention and spending as a means of solving the problems of American society and the economy. In the long run, he believed, this shift would bring a better life for all Americans.

Ford's reputation for integrity and openness had made him popular during his 25 years in Congress. From 1965 to 1973, he was House Minority Leader. Bom in Omaha, Nebraska, in 1913, he grew up in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Hestaned on the University of Michigan football team, then went fp Yale, where he served as assistant coach while earning his law degree. During World War II he attained the rank of lieutenant commander in the Navy. After the war he returned to Grand Rapids, where he began the practice of law, and entered Republican politics. A few weeks before his election

to Congress in 1948, he married Elizabeth Bloomer. They ha four children: Michael, John, Steven, and Susan.

As President, Ford tried to calm earlier controversies by granti former President Nixon a full pardon. His nominee for Vi President, former Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York, w the second person to fill that office by appointment. Gradual Ford selected a cabinet of his own. Ford established his polici during his first year in office, despite opposition from a heavil Democratic Congress. Hisfirst goal was to curb inflation. To count" rising prices, Ford began a voluntary program of controlling pric and wages called WIN (Whip Inflation Now). Instead of improving!

the economy got worse, and the nation soon entered the worst? recession since the 1930s. When recession became the Nation'* most serious domestic problem, he persuaded Congress to approve a tax cut. But, still fearing inflation, Ford vetoed a number of nom military appropriations bills that would have further increased the already heavy budgetary deficit. During his first 14 months as President he vetoed 39 measures. His vetoes were usually sustained.

While the tax cut contributed to a modest economic recovery, it also sparked a new round of inflation. The economy seemed stalled in a pattern of alternating periods of recession and growing inflation.

Ford continued as he had in his Congressional days to view himself as "a moderate in domestic affairs, a conservative in fiscal affairs, and a dyed-in-the-wool internationalist in foreign affairs." A major goal was to help business operate more freely by reducing taxes upon it and easing the controls exercised by regulatory agencies. "We... declared our independence 200 years ago, and we are not about to lose it now to paper shufflers and computers," he said. In

foreign affairs Ford acted vigorously to maintain US power and prestige after the collapse of Cambodia and South Vietnam. Preventing a new war in the Middle East remained a major objective; by providing aid to both Israel and Egypt, the Ford Administration helped persuade the two countries to accept an interim truce agreement. Detente with the Soviet Union continued. President Ford and Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev set new limitations upon nuclear

weapons. Despite these signs of cooperation, by 1976, relations with the Soviet Union had begun to cool. Critics of detente charged that the Soviet Union had cheated on nuclear agreements and had steadily increased its arsenal of weapons. They contended that the USSR had encouraged Egypt to attack Israel in 1973 and that it was arming other countries in the Third World. Many still viewed the

Soviet Union as an adversary rather than a partner in detente.

President Ford won the Republican nomination for the Presidency in 1976, but lost the election to his Democratic opponent, former Governor Jimmy Carter of Georgia. On inauguration Day, President Carter began his speech: "For myself and for our Nation, I want to thank my predecessor for all he has done to heal our land." A grateful people concurred.

How did President Ford try to stimulate the economy?

What effect did this measure have?

• Do you think that Ford continued Nixon's policies?

On what grounds did some Americans criticize the policy of detente during the mid-1970s?

3.12 THECARTERPRESIDENCY

Read the script and answer the questions.

Ext. Front Porch. Day.

Forrest: (voice-over) That day, for no particular reason, I decided

to go for a little run.

Forrest runs to the end of the drive, then turns right and runs down the highway.

Forrest: (voice-over) So I ran to the end of the road, and when

I got there, I thought maybe I'd run to the end of town.

Int. Barbershop. Day.

The three men sit as they watch the television. Forrest runs through the main street of town.

Newscaster: President Carter, suffering from heat exhausti fell into the arms of security agents.

Forrest: (voice-over) And when I got there...

Ext. Alabama Road.

The sign reads "Entering Greenbow County."

Forrest: (voice-over)... I thought maybe I'd just run aero Greenbow County. And I figured since I run this far, mi I'd just run across the great...

Forrest runs by a sign that reads "Mississippi welcomes you. Magnolia State."

Forrest: (voice-over)... state of Alabama. And that's what I d:

was elected Governor of Georgia. Among the new young southern governors, he attracted attention by emphasizing ecology, efficiency in government, and the removal of racial barriers.

Carter announced his candidacy for President in December 1974 and began a two-year campaign that gradually gained momentum. At the Democratic Convention, he was nominated on the first ballot. He chose Senator Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota as his running mate. Carter campaigned hard against President Gerald R. Ford, debating with him three times. Carter won by 297 electoral votes to 241 for Ford.

Carter worked hard to combat the continuing economic woes of inflation and unemployment. By the end of his administration, he could claim an increase of nearly eight million jobs and a decrease in the budget deficit, measured in percentage of the gross national product. Unfortunately, inflation and interest rates were at near record highs, and efforts to reduce them caused a short recession.

Carter could point to a number of achievements in domestic affairs. He dealt with the energy shortage by establishing a national energy policy and by decontrolling domestic petroleum prices to stimulate production. He prompted Government efficiency through civil service reform and proceeded with deregulation of the trucking and airline industries. He sought to improve the environment. His expansion of the national park system included protection of 103 million acres of Alaskan lands. To increase human and social services, he created the Department of Education, bolstered the Social Security system, and appointed record numbers of women, blacks, and Hispanics to Government jobs.

In foreign affairs, Carter set his own style. His championing of human rights was coldly receivedby the Soviet Union and some other nations. In the Middle East, through the Camp David agreement of 1978, he helped bring amity between Egypt and Israel. He succeeded in obtaining ratification of the Panama Canal treaties. Building upon the work of predecessors, he established full diplomatic relations

1. 2.

I ran clear across Alabama.

"President Carter, suffering from heat exhaustion fell int the arms of security agents." In what part of the world could this incident have happened?

What do you know about the 1978 Camp David Summit?"

Read to understand what difficult economic and political problems President Carter faced.

Jimmy Carter aspired to make Government "competent and compassionate," responsive to the American people and their expectations. His achievements were notable, but in an era of rising energy costs, mounting inflation, and continuing tensions, it was impossible for his administration to meet these high expectations. Carter, who has rarely used his full name - James Earl Carter, Jr. - was born on October 1,1924, in Plains, Georgia. Peanut farming,

talk of politics, and devotion to the Baptist faith were mainstays of his upbringing. Upon graduation in 1946 from the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, Carter married Rosalynn Smith. The Carters have three sons, John William (Jack), James Earl III (Chip), Donnel

Jeffrey (Jeff), and a daughter, Amy Lynn.

After seven years' service as a naval officer, Carter returned to Plains. In 1962 he entered state politics, and eight years later he

was elected Governor of Georgia. Among the new young southern governors, he attracted attention by emphasizing ecology, efficiency in government, and the removal of racial barriers.

Carter announced his candidacy for President in December 1974 and began a two-year campaign that gradually gained momentum. At the Democratic Convention, he was nominated on the first ballot. He chose Senator Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota as his running mate. Carter campaigned hard against President Gerald R. Ford, debating with him three times. Carter won by 297 electoral votes to 241 for Ford.

Carter worked hard to combat the continuing economic woes of inflation and unemployment. By the end of his administration, he could claim an increase of nearly eight million jobs and a decrease in the budget deficit, measured in percentage of the gross national product. Unfortunately, inflation and interest rates were at near record highs, and efforts to reduce them caused a short recession.

Carter could point to a number of achievements in domestic affairs. He dealt with the energy shortage by establishing a national energy policy and by decontrolling domestic petroleum prices to stimulate production. He prompted Government efficiency through civil service reform and proceeded with deregulation of the trucking and airline industries. He sought to improve the environment. His expansion of the national park system included protection of 103 million acres of Alaskan lands. To increase human and social services, he created the Department of Education, bolstered the Social Security system, and appointed record numbers of women, blacks, and Hispanics to Government jobs.

In foreign affairs, Carter set his own style. His championing of human rights was coldly receivedby the Soviet Union and some other nations. In the Middle East, through the Camp David agreement of 1978, he helped bring amity between Egypt and Israel. He succeeded in obtaining ratification of the Panama Canal treaties. Building upon the work of predecessors, he established full diplomatic relations

with the People's Republic of China and completed negotiation the SALT II nuclear limitation treaty with the Soviet Union.

There were serious setbacks, however. The Soviet invasion Afghanistan caused the suspension of plans for ratification of t SALT II pact. The seizure as hostages of the US embassy staff Iran dominated the news during the last 14 months of t administration. Iran's oil exports dropped to practically nothin The resulting shortage helped drive up the price of oil from abo $13 per barrel in 1978 to over $31 in 1980. The rise in oil pric contributed to a sharp increase in the inflation rate. By 1980, t prices of goods were rising by 13.5 per cent per year Unemployment jumped from 5.8 per cent in 1979 to 7.1 per ce. in 1980. The consequences of Iran's holding Americans capt

together with continuing inflation at home, contributed to Carter' defeat in 1980. Even then, he continued the difficult negotiatio over the hostages. Iran finally released the 52 Americans the sam day Carter left off ice.

• What economic problems faced the nation during Carte years? § What did President Garter do to combat these problems?

• What did Carter make the centerpiece of his foreign policy?

• What contributed to Carter's defeat in the 1980 election?

• The revolution that brought the Ayatollah Khomeini to

power in Iran and the Iran hostage crisis were serious threats to American interests in the Middle East. What effect do the nations of Iran and Iraq and their policies have on the United States today?

3.13 THEREAGANREVOLUTION Read the script and answer the questions.

A television shows President Reagan and his staff as they react to gunshots in front of a limo.

Newscaster: (over television) Moments ago, at two twenty-five p.m., as President Reagan was leaving the Washington Hilton Hotel...

int. Gump House, Dav.

Forrest sits eating a sandwich, watching the news of the assassination attempt

Newscaster:... five or six gunshots were fired by an unknown

would-be assassin. The President was shot in the chest and the assailant was immediately tackled by a half a dozen lawmen. As the Presidential...

1. What other muderous assaults on US presidents can you recall?

2. What do you remember about the policy of the Reagan administration?

Read to understand how President Reagan applied his belief in a free market to the nation's economic problems.

At the end of his two terms in office, Ronald Reagan viewed with satisfaction the achievements of his innovative program known as the Reagan Revolution, which aimed to reinvigorate the American people and reduce their reliance.upon Government. He felt he had fulfilled his campaign pledge of 1980 to restore "the great, confident roar of American progress and growth and optimism." Reagan had a relaxed and good-humored manner. Only two months into his administration, he was shot by a would- be assassin. As Reagan was rushed to the hospital, bleeding heavily, he smiled at the doctors and cracked, "I hope you are all good Republicans." His humor, along with a stubborn courage, were qualities that endeared him to many Americans.

On February 6, 1911, Ronald Wilson Reagan was born to Nelle and John Reagan in Tampico, Illinois. He attended high school in nearby Dixon and then worked his way through Eureka College. There, he studied economics and sociology, played on the football

team, and acted in school plays. Upon graduation, he became radio sports announcer. A screen test in 1937 won him a contra in Hollywood. During the next two decades he appeared in 5 films. From his first marriage to actress Jane Wyman, he had children, Maureen and Michael. In 1952 he married Nancy Da

who was also an actress, and they had two children, Patricia A and Ronald Prescott.

As president of the Screen Actors Guild, Reagan becam embroiled in disputes over the issue of Communism in the fit industry; his political views shifted from liberal to conservati He toured the country as a television host, becoming a spokesma for conservatism. In 1966 he was elected Governor of Calif опт by a margin of a million votes; he was re-elected in 1970.

Ronald Reagan won the Republican Presidential nomination i 1980 and chose as his running mate former Texas Congressm* and United Nations Ambassador George Bush. Voters troubU by inflation and by the year-long confinement of Americans i Iran swept the Republican ticket into office. Reagan won 48

electoral votes to 49 for President Jimmy Carter.

On January 20, 1981, Reagan took office. Dealing skillfully with Congress, Reagan obtained legislation to stimulate economic growth, curb inflation, increase employment, and strengthen national defense. He embarked upon a course of cutting taxes and Government expenditures, refusing to deviate from it when the strengthening of defense forces led to a large deficit. Reagan also hoped to get the government "off the back of the people" by reducing government restrictions on business and industry. This process, known as deregulation, freed banking, trucking, and

the airlines from government regulation. In addition, the President signed an executive order abolishing price controls on most domestic crude oil.

At first, the economy slipped, causing a recession and a 10 per cent unemployment rate. But then the high rate of inflation began

o drop. With so many people out of work, consumers spent less, and businesses lowered prices. Inflation also decreased because the supply of oil increased, driving down prices for gasoline and petroleum products. By 1983, the economy had begun to improve. Employment increased and the average family income rose for the first time in four years.

A renewal of national self-confidence by 1984 helped Reagan and Bush win a second term with an unprecedented number of electoral votes. Their victory turned away Democratic challengers Walter F. Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro. In 1986 Reagan obtained an overhaul of the income tax code, which eliminated many deductions and exempted millions of people with low incomes. At the end of his administration, the Nation was enjoying its longest recorded period of peacetime prosperity without recession or depression.

In foreign policy, Reagan sought to achieve "peace through strength", viewing conflicts throughout the world as part of a global struggle between the United States and the "evil empire", as he once called the Soviet Union. During his two terms he increased defense spending 35 per cent. In 1983, Reagan proposed developing a weapons system in outer space to shield the nation from incoming enemy missiles. This Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) got the nickname "Star Wars". As an intense arms race undermined the Soviet economy, the time was ripe for reducing world tensions, so Reagan sought to improve relations with the Soviet Union. I.n the 1987 dramatic meetings with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, he negotiated a treaty that would eliminate

intermediate-range nuclear forces (INF).

In late 1986, a Lebanese newspaper reported that the United States government had secretly sold weapons to Iran in order to help free American hostages being held there. The report seemed unbelievable since the US had banned arms shipments to Iran. But a few days later, the government admitted that arms had been sold and the proceeds from the sale had been

diverted to the contrast, a group of rebels who were fighting the leftist Sandinistas, in Nicaragua. This happened at a time, when US military aid to the contras had been prohibited by law. Critics compared the affair to the Watergate scandal, but no evidence tied President Reagan directly to Iran-Contra Scandal.

Reagan declared war against international terrorism, sending American bombers against Libya after evidence came out that Libya was involved in an attack on American soldiers in a West Berlin nightclub. By ordering naval escorts in the Persian Gulf, he maintained the free flow of oil during the Iran-Iraq war. In, keeping with the Reagan Doctrine, he gave support to anti- Communist insurgencies in Central America, Asia, and Africa. Overall, the Reagan years saw a restoration of prosperity, and the goal of peace through strength seemed to be within grasp.

• What did President Reagan consider the major economic problems when he first took the office? How did he deal with them?

What was President Reagan's policy towards the Soviet Union? How did relations between the two nations change?

• Why was Reagan's policy toward Nicaragua controversial?

• Describe President Reagan's foreign policy toward the

Middle East, Latin America and Africa.

3.14 THE HIPPIE MOVEMENT AND ITS AFTERMATH

Read the script and answer the questions.

Jenny: I have so much to tell you, you won't believe what's been going on...

Forrest: (voice-over) We walked around all night, Jenny and me, just talkin'.

Ext. Route 66. Flashback. Day.

Jenny stands in the rain, hitchhiking. A car pulls over to pick her up. Jenny and other girls get into the car.

Forrest: (voice-over) She told me about all the travelin' she's

done.

Ext. Commune in New Mexico. Night.

A hippie gives Jenny a sugar cube of acid as they sit in front of a roaring fire.

Forrest: (voice-over) And how she'd discovered ways to expand

her mind and learn how to live in harmony...

Ext. Hollywood. Walk of Fame. Dav,

A star with the name "Jean Harlow" on the sidewalk. Jenny and two other girls sing on the sidewalk and collect change from the passersby. Jenny plays the guitar.

Forrest: (voice-over)... which must be out west somewhere,

'cause she made it all the way to California.

Jenny: (sing) "Smile on your brother, everybody get together,

try to love on another right now."

A young hippie looks over his faded Volkswagen at the girls.

Young Hippie: Hey, anybody want to goto San Francisco? Jenny: I'll go.

Int. Disco. -

Disco lights flash and people dance. A guy asks a girl to dance.

Girt: Okay.

Jenny sits at a table with some other people. She is snorting cocaine.

Forrest: (voice-over) Now, I hadn't heard from Jenny in a long

while. But...

Ext. Bayou La Batre. D&v,

Forrest stands at the helm as the boat glides across the water.

Forrest: (voice-over) But I thought about her a lot. And I hoped that whatever she was doing made her happy.

Int. Apartment. Night.

Drug paraphernalia and a large wad of cash are spread out on a table. A man drops a syringe on the table. He reaches over and touches Jenny. She is pale with dark Vines under her eyes. ?

Int. Bathroom.

Jenny smears some lines of cocaine on a mirror. She looks at herself in the mirror.

Ext. Balcony.

Jenny steps out onto the high-rise balcony. She steps up on a table and stands on the edge of the balcony. A busy street lies many stories below. Jenny looks down to the intersection below* She slips over the edge, regains her balance, turns and looks back at the intersection below, and begins to get down from the edge. Jenny grabs a hold of the ledge and carefully climbs down. She sits down on a chair. Jenny rocks back and forth as she cries. She looks up at the sky.

Ext. Park. Day.

Forrest and Jenny sit on a bench. Forrest Jr. swings behind them.

Jenny: Forrest, I'm sick.

Forrest: What, do you have a cough due to cold?

Jenny: I have some kind virus. And the doctors don't, they

don't know what it is. And there isn't anything they can

do about it.

Forrest: You could come home with me. Jenny, you and little

Forrest could come stay at my house in Greenbow. I'll

take care of you if you're sick. Jenny: Would you marry me, Forrest? Forrest: Okay.

Read to understand why Americans have built a new subculture in the 1960s, and how drugs and AIDS have become political issues.

With the development of new technology, a war against Communism, and an internal war against racial injustice, a change in America was sure to happen. As the children of the baby boom became young adults, they found far more discontent wrth the world around them. This lead to a subculture labeled as hippies, that as time went one merged into a mass society all its own. These people were upset about the war in Vietnam, skeptical of the present government and its associated authority, and searching for a place to free themselves from society's current norms, bringing the style they are known for today. The freedom they found came with the help of drugs. Marijuana evolved from its black and Hispanic, jazz-minded enclaves to the outlying zones of the white middle class young. This new drug allowed a person to open their mind to new understandings and philosophies. But it was not just marijuana that opened the minds of the youth; a new drug known as LSD came into existence.

Depending on who was doing the talking, LSD was an intellectual tool to explore psychic 'inner space', a new source of kicks for thrill seekers - or the latest and most frightening addiction to the list of mind drugs available in the pill society. With politicians and law enforcement officers looking on the drug as a danger to society, many expert chemists set up underground laboratories and fabricated potent and pure LSD, kept their prices down, gave out plenty of free samples, and fancied themselves dispensers of miracles at the service of a new age. It was not just the youth in America who was using these drugs. A statistic from 1967 states that more American troops in Vietnam were arrested for smoking marijuana than for any other major crime. The amazing statistic was not the amount of soldiers smoking marijuana; it was the amount of soldiers America was sending over to fight a war that nobody understood. With the fear of being sent to Vietnam, many potential draftees looked

100

101

1. 2.

What factors have contributed to the emergence of the hippie movement?

In what way does drug abuse endanger human health?

Read to understand why Americans have built a new subculture in the 1960s, and how drugs and AIDS have become political issues.

With the development of new technology, a war against Communism, and an internal war against racial injustice, a change in America was sure to happen. As the children of the baby boom became young adults, they found far more discontent wrth the world around them. This lead to a subculture labeled as hippies, that as time went one merged into a mass society all its own. These people were upset about the war in Vietnam, skeptical of the present government and its associated authority, and searching for a place to free themselves from society's current norms, bringing the style they are known for today. The freedom they found came with the help of drugs. Marijuana evolved from its black and Hispanic, jazz-minded enclaves to the outlying zones of the white middle class young. This new drug allowed a person to open their mind to new understandings and philosophies. But it was not just marijuana that opened the minds of the youth; a new drug known as LSD came into existence.

Depending on who was doing the talking, LSD was an intellectual tool to explore psychic 'inner space', a new source of kicks for thrill seekers - or the latest and most frightening addiction to the list of mind drugs available in the pill society. With politicians and law enforcement officers looking on the drug as a danger to society, many expert chemists set up underground laboratories and fabricated potent and pure LSD, kept their prices down, gave out plenty of free samples, and fancied themselves dispensers of miracles at the service of a new age. It was not just the youth in America who was using these drugs. A statistic from 1967 states that more American troops in Vietnam were arrested for smoking marijuana than for any other major crime. The amazing statistic was not the amount of soldiers smoking marijuana; it was the amount of soldiers America was sending over to fight a war that nobody understood. With the fear of being sent to Vietnam, many potential draftees looked

for a place to run. Some went to Mexico, some went to Euro some went to Ganada, and some just burnt their draft-cards t resist the draft. For those who did not flee, life was full harassment from the Government.

Popular music and literature helped display this message o repression. Jimi Hendrix released a song titled "If 6 was 9" th described his oppression: "White collared conservative f lashin down the street / Pointing their plastic finger at me / They're hopii soon my kind will drop and die...Go on Mr. Businessman £ You can't dress like me." During Woodstock, the music festival i '69, Country Joe and the Fish sang lyrics that were both cómica* and intense: "What are we fighting for? / Don't ask me, I don't give a damn / Next stop is Vietnam...Whoopee we're all gonna die." The new culture identified themselves with the Native

Americans and their unquestionable oppression, sacramental drugs, and true ties to America. The style that they developed was true to this philosophy: dope, hair, beads, easy sex, all that might have started as symbols of teenage difference or deviance, were fast transformed into signs of cultural dissidence. Boys with long and unkempt hair, pony tails, beards, moustaches and sideburns; girls without curlers, stringy-haired, free of makeup and bras. A beard could be understood as an attempt to leap into manhood. Clothes were a riot of costumes...India's beads, Indians' headbands, cowboy-style boots and hides, granny glasses, long dresses, working-class jeans and flannels. There

was a tour bus that ran through the Haight-Ashbury area in San Francisco called the Gray Line. The tours promotional brochure contained the statement: "The only foreign tour within the continental limits of the United States." The significant people in the city did not like the idea of a large hippie community growing in their city, but the hippies continued to pursue their "make love not war" and "free love" attitudes. There is still a large hippie population in America today.

By 1986, the drug crisis worsened with the appearance of highly active form of cocaine known as crack. Youth addiction and drug-

related crimes soared. The spread of the disease known as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, or AIDS has become another serious concern in recent years. AIDS is caused by a virus that cripples the body's ability to fight off infection. Research shows that a person can contract AIDS through sexual contact with an infected partner or sharing contaminated needles while taking drugs. But as yet, there is no cure for not means of immunization against AIDS. As research continues into the control and prevention of AIDS, the disease is being treated as a serious public health problem and a major political issue.

102

103

Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump

• •

How did the hippie movement affect American society? What groups of people risk contracting AIDS?

What needs to be done to prevent AIDS and educate young people at risk?

3.15 ADVANCESINSCIENCEAND TECHNOLOGY

Read the script and answer the questions.

Forrest: Now, because I had been a football star, and a war hero, and a national celebrity, and a shrimpin' boat captain, and a college graduate, the city of fathers of Greenbow, Alabama, decided to get together and offered me a fine job.

Ext. Football Field. Dav.

Forrest rides a lawn tractor as he moves the football field lawn.

Forrest: (voice-over) So, I never went back to work for Lieutenant Dan.

Ext. Gump House Mailboxes.

Forrest takes out a letter and opens it.

Forrest: (voice-over) Though he did take care of my Bubba- Gump money. He got me invested in some kind of fruit

company. And so then I got a caH-from him saying don't have to worry about money no more.

1. Investment in what kind of "fruit company" could ha brought a fabulous profit in the 1980s?

2. Why have computers changed Americans' everyday life

Read to understand how advances in computer technolv^, increase the amount of information available to th average person.

In the past, American families considered the day they got their first telephone, first car, or first television as important milestones. But today people will more likely ask, "Remember when we got our first computer?" Computers began popping up on desks in homes, schools, and offices in the 1980s. In 1988, Stephen Jobs, one of the inventors of the Apple Computer, presented a new computer that comes with the works of Shakespeare and a large dictionary already in its memory.

Computers have produced a revolution in offices and factories! In some modern factories, humans are needed only to service the computer-controlled robots that do all the assembly-line work. They also perform other tasks such as record-keeping, payroll accounting, and billing. Without computer technology, the United States could not have sent satellites or people into space. Yet that same technology has made modern weapons far more accurate and destructive than ever before.

A device called a modem can connect a computer through telephone lines to any similarly equipped computer. With a modem, people at home can link their computers into businesses, schools, and libraries. Many businesses have employees who never come to the office - all their work is done at home on a computer and transmitted by modem. Consumers can shop via computers. Electronic mail already delivers letters via computers. Some handicapped people are using computers to attend college. Video

Focus on American Language, History and Culture via the film Forrest Gump games using computer technology are changing the way many

Americans use their leisure time.

Whether we realize it or not, most everything we use on a PC today has something to do directly with Microsoft, a computer corporation founded by Bill Gates. William Henry Gates III was born in Seattle, Washington, in 1955. Bill was called Trey by his father, since Trey means three. Trey was always smart, and always loved even the earliest computers he could get his hands on. One day, in December of 1975, Paul Allen, a friend of Bill, showed him the Popular Electronics magazine, with an Altair 8800, the first mini-computer kit, on the cover. Paul convinced Bill to start a company with him, and to drop out of Harvard. Bill, somewhat reluctantly, agreed.

William Gates and Paul Allen started a company together, when Trey was 19, in 1976. They eventually decided to call it Microsoft.

company. And so then I got a caH-from him saying don't have to worry about money no more.

1. Investment in what kind of "fruit company" could ha brought a fabulous profit in the 1980s?

2. Why have computers changed Americans' everyday life

Read to understand how advances in computer technolv^, increase the amount of information available to th average person.

In the past, American families considered the day they got their first telephone, first car, or first television as important milestones. But today people will more likely ask, "Remember when we got our first computer?" Computers began popping up on desks in homes, schools, and offices in the 1980s. In 1988, Stephen Jobs, one of the inventors of the Apple Computer, presented a new computer that comes with the works of Shakespeare and a large dictionary already in its memory.

Computers have produced a revolution in offices and factories! In some modern factories, humans are needed only to service the computer-controlled robots that do all the assembly-line work. They also perform other tasks such as record-keeping, payroll accounting, and billing. Without computer technology, the United States could not have sent satellites or people into space. Yet that same technology has made modern weapons far more accurate and destructive than ever before.

A device called a modem can connect a computer through telephone lines to any similarly equipped computer. With a modem, people at home can link their computers into businesses, schools, and libraries. Many businesses have employees who never come to the office - all their work is done at home on a computer and transmitted by modem. Consumers can shop via computers. Electronic mail already delivers letters via computers. Some handicapped people are using computers to attend college. Video

games using computer technology are changing the way many

Americans use their leisure time.

Whether we realize it or not, most everything we use on a PC today has something to do directly with Microsoft, a computer corporation founded by Bill Gates. William Henry Gates III was born in Seattle, Washington, in 1955. Bill was called Trey by his father, since Trey means three. Trey was always smart, and always loved even the earliest computers he could get his hands on. One day, in December of 1975, Paul Allen, a friend of Bill, showed him the Popular Electronics magazine, with an Altair 8800, the first mini-computer kit, on the cover. Paul convinced Bill to start a company with him, and to drop out of Harvard. Bill, somewhat reluctantly, agreed.

William Gates and Paul Allen started a company together, when Trey was 19, in 1976. They eventually decided to call it Microsoft. The goal of Microsoft was to put a computer on every desk in every building. To make that happen, Microsoft aimed at compatibility. After Microsoft had been founded, however, they made foreign software for Japanese. They had been making it for a long time, but then teamed up with IBM and Intel to make the first Personal Computer. They made an operating system for it, Microsoft DOS, which was cheap, full of features, and available. That strategy turned MS-DOS into the most frequently used operating system used for IBM PCs. Microsoft made the first graphical OS, using a mouse as well as a keyboard, and called it Windows. After that, Microsoft added other software, such as Microsoft Word, which is, a word processor, and MS

Excel, which is a spreadsheet program. As Microsoft grew, its range of products broadened, to include some hardware, and various software. They produce games, Internet programs, have an online service, more than five Windows and DOS versions, and much more.

Microsoft Windows matured, and so did the software for it. In 1995, a new version of Windows came along, called Windows 95.

It was a major advance. Microsoft is now worth about $9 billi Gates' fortune has recently reached the 20 billion mark, whi made him one of the richest people in the world.

Do you believe the computer has changed the lives Americans more than such technological advances as t telephone and the automobile?

How have computers revolutionized both the work pla and leisure time for many people?

3.2

阅读剧本，回答问题。

橡树巷外。阿甘寄宿的房子。

阿甘夫人和弗勒斯特沿着一条土路行走。一排邮筒

站在左边。

福雷斯特。(画外音)我们住在17号公路的四分之一英里处，离阿拉巴马州的格林鲍镇大约半英里。那是在格林博县。我们的房子一直在

妈妈的家庭，因为她的爷爷的爷爷的爷爷

一千年前漂洋过海来到这里。

差不多就是这样。

阿甘夫人和福瑞斯特沿着阿甘寄宿屋的车道走着。

福瑞斯特。(由于只有我和妈妈，而且我们

1. 2.

有这么多空房间，妈妈决定把这些房间租出去。主要是出租给路过的人。比如来自莫比尔、蒙哥马利之类的地方。这就是我和妈妈赚钱的方法。妈妈是个非常聪明的女人。

阿甘夫人以什么为生？

你认为20世纪50年代有很多美国人住在郊区吗？

通过阅读了解20世纪中期妇女在美国生活和流行文化中扮演的角色。

20世纪50年代是一个巨大的社会变革时期。最明显的变化之一是人们大量迁移到郊区。有几个因素鼓励了这种增长。战后的 "婴儿潮 "创造了对新住房的需求，而这一时期的繁荣使许多人能够购买自己的住房。格尔法案》为退伍军人的住房贷款抵押提供了联邦援助。

退伍军人。战后大规模的道路建设计划将郊区住宅与城市工作联系起来。

50年代，在郊区管理一个家成为许多妇女的目标。反过来，郊区变得越来越自我封闭，标志着内部城市的衰落。20世纪20年代的郊区居民在娱乐和购物方面依赖城市，而战后的郊区居民可以在附近的超市找到各种各样的商品。

电视在强化妇女的角色是在家里的观点方面尤为重要。自1946年全国网络广播开始以来，电视的普及率急剧上升。在20世纪50年代，每年售出近700万台电视机。大多数电视广告显示妇女在家里做活。受欢迎的节目，如 "父亲最懂事"，很少描写在家庭以外工作的妇女。

列出二战后鼓励郊区发展的两个因素。

在20世纪50年代，许多美国妇女的目标是什么？

3.3 新的流行文化

阅读剧本并回答问题。

福雷斯特。(画外音）有一次，一个年轻人和我们住在一起，他给他准备了一个吉他盒。

阿甘夫人看了看福瑞斯特的房间。她听到另一个房间传来的歌声，走到一扇紧闭的门前。甘夫人打开门，露出一个长鬓角的年轻人，他一边弹吉他一边唱歌。福瑞斯特扶着扫帚，跳着奇怪的舞蹈。这个年轻人就是埃尔维斯-普雷斯利。

埃尔维斯-普雷斯利：（唱）"好吧，你没有抓过兔子，你也不是我的朋友。"

阿甘的腿随着吉他声来回摇晃。

阿甘夫人。福瑞斯特*我告诉过你不要打扰这个好青年。

埃尔维斯。哦，不，没关系的，夫人。我只是向他展示了一两件关于吉他的事情。

阿甘夫人。好的，如果你们想吃的话，晚餐已经准备好了。

是的，听起来不错。谢谢你，夫人。

阿甘夫人离开并关上了门。埃尔维斯坐回原位。福瑞斯特站在左边，看着镜子里的自己。

说，伙计，让我看看你刚才那段疯狂的小碎步。

慢一点。

福瑞斯特又开始跳舞，猫王弹着吉他唱歌。

埃尔维斯。("你什么都不是，只是一只猎犬，猎犬......" 福瑞斯特。(画外音)我喜欢那把吉他。

福瑞斯特一边跳舞一边看着镜子里的自己。

福瑞斯特。(（画外音）听起来不错。

埃尔维斯。(唱)"...一直在哭..."

福瑞斯特用他支撑的双腿上下摇晃，然后开始踏步。

埃尔维斯。("你什么都不是，只是一只猎犬..."

福瑞斯特 (画外音)我开始随着音乐走动。

摆动我的臀部。这一天晚上，我们和妈妈...

Ext. Greenbow. 夜晚。

阿甘夫人和弗勒斯特沿着人行道行走。一家商店橱窗里的电视显示猫王在舞台上表演 "Houng Dog"。

福瑞斯特。(...出去买东西，我们正好走到了

经过本森的家具和电器店，你猜怎么着？

你猜怎么着。

电视机显示了猫王的身影，他扭动着屁股唱歌。

埃尔维斯。("你什么都不是，只是一只猎犬......"

阿甘夫人和弗勒斯特看着电视。

猫王以弗勒斯的方式跳起舞来。观众席上的一个女人在尖叫和鼓掌。

埃尔维斯。("你什么都不是，只是一只猎犬......"

阿甘夫人 这不是孩子的眼睛。

阿甘夫人走了，拉着弗勒斯走了。福瑞斯特停下来，看了最后一眼。

埃尔维斯继续在电视上表演。

埃尔维斯。("好吧，你没有抓到过兔子，你也不是

不是我的朋友。"

福雷斯特。(若干年后，那个被称为 "国王 "的英俊年轻人

他们称之为 "国王 "的人，嗯，他唱了太多的歌，自己得了心脏病或什么的。

1. 20世纪50年代，哪些新形式的音乐和视觉艺术开始成为流行文化的一部分？

2. 在过去的10到15年里，出现了哪些新的音乐和艺术形式？

通过阅读，了解20世纪50年代发展了哪些新的音乐和艺术形式。

1950年代社会变革的暗流反映在音乐和艺术上。在20世纪30年代和40年代，流行音乐被宾-克罗斯比和弗兰克-辛纳屈这样的 "歌星 "的流畅旋律以及格伦-米勒和艾灵顿公爵的 "大乐队 "声音所主导。在20世纪50年代，广播盘友开始播放一种新类型的音乐--摇滚乐。摇滚乐

摇滚乐融合了乡村和西方音乐的元素以及黑人艺术家的节奏布鲁斯歌曲。美国青少年喜欢这种强烈的节拍、简单的和声和响亮的音量。

摇滚乐的强劲节拍与艾森豪威尔时代的大部分安静音调形成鲜明对比。许多成年人对EMs Presley、Chuck Berry和Buddy Holly等摇滚明星的光头发型和臀部摆动的表演风格感到震惊。一些人担心摇滚乐会助长青少年的犯罪和不道德行为。尽管有这样的反对意见，美国年轻人很快就接受了摇滚。摇滚明星成为偶像，摇滚乐充满了电波。

视觉艺术也发生了变化。美国艺术家引领了一场国际运动，从现实主义绘画转向一种被称为抽象表现主义的形式。艺术馆的参观者常常对那些看起来只是在画布上随意泼洒的颜料感到困惑。但是，抽象表现主义者是严肃的艺术家。有些人，如杰克逊-波洛克，用旋转的颜色来吸收观众的情感。其他人则提供有趣的颜色和线条的重复。

50

51

E. B. riMHyrMHa 通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国语言、历史和文化

- -

你是否同意纽约画派艺术家汉斯-霍夫曼的名言，他写道："一幅画应该是带着感觉的，而不是知道的"？

你对音乐和艺术形式的个人偏好是什么？

3.4 公民权利 阅读剧本并回答问题。

画面。绿波。理发店。黑白电视。

(1963年6月11日）。)

一位名叫切特-亨特利的主播出现在电视上。切特-亨特利。(在电视上)联邦军队执行法院的命令

今天整合阿拉巴马大学。

Ext, University of Alabama. Dav.

福雷斯特走过一群人。

切特-亨特利。州长乔治-华莱士已经执行了他的象征性威胁，站在了校舍门口。华莱士州长。我们在此谴责并禁止这种非法的

中央政府的这种非法和无理的行为。

入。绿波。理发店。

黑白电视显示，乔治-华莱士站在校舍的门口。

卡岑巴赫。(华莱士州长，我认为是这样的。

呃......。

阿拉巴马大学的电话。

福雷斯特走到一个年轻人身边，众人都在看着这场示威。

卡岑巴赫：......声明说你将站在那扇门里。

你不打算执行本法庭的命令，而且你要抵制我们这样做。我再次要求你负责任地站到一边，如果你不这样做，我将向你保证......

福雷斯特。厄尔，发生了什么事？

埃尔：浣熊试图进入学校。

弗勒斯。浣熊？当浣熊试图进入我们的后门廊时。

妈妈就用扫帚把它们赶走。

不是浣熊，你这个白痴，是黑鬼。他们还想和我们一起去

和我们一起上学。福雷斯特。和我们一起？他们愿意？

福瑞斯特向校舍走去。

进入。教练的办公室。

一名足球教练看着一台黑白电视，校舍外的新闻记者对着镜头说话。

新闻工作者。(...堵在门口，肯尼迪总统

命令国防部长使用军事力量。

piank and White Footaae.

镜头切到华莱士州长与格雷厄姆将军交谈时。

新闻工作者：这里的录像带是国民警卫队司令格雷厄姆将军的遭遇。

国民警卫队司令格雷厄姆和州长

华莱士。

福雷斯站在乔治-华莱士旁边听着。

州长。我们今天或其他任何一天都不能有暴力，因为华莱士这些国民警卫队员今天是作为阿拉巴马人的联邦士兵在这里。他们生活在我们的边界内，他们都是我们的兄弟。我们在这场斗争中取得了胜利，因为我们正在唤醒美国人民，让他们认识到我们已经说过很多次的危险，只是今天很明显，这个国家走向军事独裁的趋势。

延伸：阿拉巴马大学。

阿拉巴马州的一些警察和市民拍手叫好，国民警卫队的队员们拿着武器站在他们面前。福雷斯特走过人群。两名黑人学生被带向校舍。

新闻工作者。就这样，在一天结束时，塔斯卡卢萨的阿拉巴马大学已经取消了种族隔离，学生吉米-胡德和维维安-马龙已经被报名参加暑期班。

年轻的黑人女孩扔下了另外一本书籍。福雷斯特注意到了这一点，并越过警察走向地上的那本书。福雷斯特从人群中走出来，捡起了那本书。他把书拿到女孩面前。

福瑞斯特。女士，你的书掉了。女士。内。教练的办公室。晚上（1963年）。

一位教练看着电视。电视机显示出福雷斯特站在校舍门口的样子。他环顾四周，然后挥手。切特-亨特利。(华莱士州长做了他承诺的事情

做的事。通过在塔斯卡卢萨校园，他

一位助理教练看着电视，然后看着其他教练。

助理教练。说，那不是阿甘吗？

橄榄球教练和两名助理教练看着。阿甘用毛巾擦干

用毛巾擦干自己，他从淋浴间走出来。

切特-亨特利。(在电视上)NBC新闻将在今晚7点30分推出阿拉巴马州整合故事的特别节目...

助理教练。不，这不可能。

橄榄球教练。肯定是这样的。

切特-亨特利：......标准东部夏令时间。现在是阿纳辛的一句话。

福瑞斯特走到教练席前，拿起一条干净的毛巾。教练们转过身来，盯着福瑞斯特，福瑞斯特向他们做了一个愚蠢的挥手，然后走了。

他愚蠢的挥手，然后走了。

彩色镜头。

华莱士州长和他的妻子站在讲台后面，向人群挥手。

福瑞斯特。(画外音)几年后，那个在校舍门口的愤怒的小人认为这是个好主意，于是竞选总统。

彩色镜头。

华莱士州长混迹于人群中。枪声响起，打伤了他。一些人与枪手搏斗。华莱士受伤躺在地上。

福雷斯特。(画外音)但是，有人认为，这不是。

1. 你对美国的种族隔离制度了解多少？

2. 谁是60年代最杰出的民权领袖？

通过阅读，了解肯尼迪政府时期在民权方面取得了哪些进展。

尽管肯尼迪长期以来一直支持民权立法，但作为总统，他行动谨慎，因为他需要国会中南方民主党人对其他项目的支持。然而，他确实支持了一项投票权法案和一项关于宪法第二十四条修正案的提议。

宪法的第二十四条修正案，禁止征收人头税。该修正案于1962年8月通过，并于1964年获得批准。肯尼迪还任命黑人为住房金融局的负责人，并任命瑟古德-马切尔为联邦法官。

许多民权领袖对改革的缓慢步伐感到不满意。由于不愿意等待政府，他们采取了小马丁-路德-金牧师倡导的非暴力反对策略。他的组织--南方基督教领袖会议也加入了其他组织，包括种族平等大会（CORE）和学生非暴力协调委员会（SNCG）。全国有色人种协进会继续通过法院工作，对歧视行为提起诉讼。

1960年，一群年轻的黑人拒绝离开一个 "全白 "的午餐柜台，一场反对南方公共设施隔离的运动开始了。"自由乘客 "拒绝在公共汽车和火车上被隔离。抗议者领导了取消学校种族隔离的运动。在北方，民权倡导者组织罢租以抗议恶劣的住房条件，抵制拒绝雇用黑人的商店。这些非暴力的策略往往产生了暴力的反应。愤怒的暴徒袭击了自由乘客的巴士。警察有时用水龙、警犬或电棍驱散抗议者。民权工作者被关进监狱并被罚款。

从1955年马丁-路德-金牧师领导的蒙哥马利公交车抵制活动开始，民权运动与那些为维护 "白人生活方式 "而斗争的人之间的冲突将导致暴力，在某些情况下甚至是谋杀。1948年至1965年期间，南方深处有200多座黑人教堂和住宅成为爆炸事件的目标，没有比阿拉巴马州的伯明翰（被称为 "Bombingham"）更不稳定的城市。

总统的弟弟罗伯特-肯尼迪司法部长坚定地处理了侵犯民权的问题。1961年，他派出联邦军队

到阿拉巴马州保护试图整合公共汽车和火车的黑人。他亲自监督了詹姆斯-梅雷迪思（James Meredith）的案件，他是一名黑人空军退伍军人，试图在全白的密西西比大学入学。1962年，梅雷迪思注册上课时爆发了暴乱。总检察长命令5000名联邦军队到校园恢复秩序。几百名士兵一直在那里

直到梅雷迪思毕业。

1962年，在当选州长之前，乔治-华莱士与其他南方州长结盟，这些州长也面临着联邦干预的问题，以便在本州的学校实行取消种族隔离制度。华莱士出现在佐治亚州马文-格里芬的集会上，他的对手是在取消种族隔离问题上持更温和观点的候选人。华莱士还支持密西西比州州长罗斯-巴米特在密西西比大学第一个黑人学生詹姆斯-梅雷迪思的入学问题上发生的州和联邦当局之间的戏剧性对抗。舞台已经搭建好了

为他自己在阿拉巴马大学的戏剧性立场创造了条件。

在阿拉巴马州，当联邦法警试图护送黑人学生奥特琳-露西进入以前全是白人的阿拉巴马大学时，州长乔治-华莱士亲自挡住大门，引起了全国的关注。与梅雷迪思一样，露西在联邦军队的保护下继续接受教育。

乔治-科利-华莱士于1919年8月25日出生在阿拉巴马州克利奥主街附近的一座四室 "猎枪 "房子里。华莱士夫妇总共有四个孩子。乔治、杰拉尔德、杰克和玛丽安。像南方农村和美国其他地方的许多人一样，这个家庭在大萧条期间随着经济的崩溃而遭受困难。毫无疑问，乔治的政治倾向是由他所经历的农村贫困和他父亲对南方经济状况的公开愤慨所决定的。老乔治经常对他的儿子说，"南方人不能被选为国家官员，因为北方人看不起我们"。他的父亲并没有意识到他的观点会对

会对未来阿拉巴马州州长的政治纲领产生影响。

州长的政治纲领产生影响。1968年，为了应对反越战运动和扰乱国家的城市骚乱，乔治-华莱士成为第三党的总统候选人。他在竞选中承诺要恢复国家的 "法律和秩序"。

1963年6月，肯尼迪总统向国会提交了一份关于全面的CMI权利计划的提案。拟议的立法将禁止在就业、公共住宿、投票和接受联邦援助的国家计划中的歧视。在一份电视讲话中，总统问道 我们是否要对世界--更重要的是，对彼此--说这是一片自由的土地，除了黑人；我们没有二等公民，除了黑人；我们没有阶级或种姓制度，没有贫民区，没有主种族；除了黑人？

1963年8月28日，20多万黑人和白人聚集在华盛顿特区，要求种族平等。他们挥舞着横幅，唱着赞美诗，听着民权领袖呼吁正义。这一天的高潮是小马丁-利特-金的振聋发聩的希望演讲。他宣称："我有一个梦想，"然后描绘了一个人人平等的国家，他和他的孩子将 "最终获得自由！"

描述民权支持者在20世纪60年代初使用的策略。

随着《投票权法案》增加了黑人选民的登记，更多的黑人候选人开始竞选公职。请说出今天在美国任职的一些著名黑人民选官员。

3.5 《白宫》 阅读剧本并回答问题。

黑白派拉蒙新闻片。日（1963年）。

白宫，上面有 "世界的眼睛和耳朵派拉蒙新闻 "的字样。

福雷斯特。(画外音)他们甚至让我加入一个叫做全美队的东西，在那里你可以见到美国总统。

黑白新闻片。

肯尼迪总统拿着一个亲笔签名的足球，全美队站在他身后。福雷斯特是穿着西装的队员之一。

播音员。(肯尼迪总统会见了美国大学全美橄榄球队。

肯尼迪总统今天在椭圆形办公室会见了大学全美橄榄球队。

内景。白宫接待区。日（1963年）。

全美橄榄球队的队员们在餐桌旁打成一片。福雷斯特走到桌子前。桌子上摆着一大堆食物和苏打水。

福雷斯特。(现在，与美国总统会面的真正好处是食物。

的真正好处是食物。

福瑞斯特从餐桌旁拿起一瓶胡椒博士。桌子上摆放着许多瓶装的胡椒博士。一个仆人为他打开瓶子。

福瑞斯特。(画外音)他们把你放在这个小房间里，里面有几乎所有你想吃的东西。

你想吃什么，喝什么。而由于

第一，我不饿，但很渴。

福瑞斯特开始大口大口地喝起了胡椒博士。

福雷斯特。(第二，它们是免费的，我一定是喝了15个胡椒博士。

黑白画面。

肯尼迪总统与全美橄榄球运动员握手。

1. 2.

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国的语言、历史和文化 阅读，了解白宫的历史背景

白宫。

两百年来，白宫一直作为总统府、美国政府和美国人民的象征而存在。它的历史，以及国家首都的历史，始于乔治-华盛顿总统在1790年12月签署的一项国会法案，宣布联邦政府将居住在一个 "不超过10英里见方的......波托马克河边 "的地区。华盛顿总统与城市规划师皮埃尔-朗方一起选择了新住所的地点，即现在的宾夕法尼亚大道1600号。在开始筹备新的联邦城市时，举行了一次竞争，以寻找 "总统之家 "的建造者。提交了九份提案，出生于爱尔兰的建筑师詹姆斯-霍本因其实用而英俊的设计获得了金奖。1792年10月，第一块基石奠基后，施工开始。虽然华盛顿总统监督了房子的建造，但他从未在里面住过。直到1800年，当白宫接近完工时，它的第一批居民，约翰-亚当斯总统和他的妻子阿比盖尔才搬进去。从那时起，每位总统都做了自己的改变和补充。白宫毕竟是总统的私人住宅。它也是唯一向公众免费开放的国家元首的私人住宅。

白宫有一段独特而迷人的历史。它在1814年（1812年战争期间）在英国人手中经历了一场火灾，并在1929年赫伯特-胡佛担任总统时，在西翼经历了另一场火灾。在哈里-S-杜鲁门担任总统的大部分时间里，房子的内部，除了三楼之外，都被彻底翻修过，而杜鲁门夫妇就住在宾夕法尼亚大道对面的布莱尔宫。尽管如此，外墙的石墙是两个世纪前白宫建成时首次投入使用的。

总统们可以在他们如何装饰房子的某些部分以及在他们如何接待公众时表达他们的个人风格。

58

59

国家的首都是什么时候从纽约迁到华盛顿特区的？

你认为华盛顿特区是否实现了L'Enfant的预言，即它将 "给后人留下一个促进其发展的爱国主义利益的宏伟构想"？

阅读以了解白宫的历史背景

白宫。

两百年来，白宫一直作为总统府、美国政府和美国人民的象征而存在。它的历史，以及国家首都的历史，始于乔治-华盛顿总统在1790年12月签署的一项国会法案，宣布联邦政府将居住在一个 "不超过10英里见方的......波托马克河边 "的地区。华盛顿总统与城市规划师皮埃尔-朗方一起选择了新住所的地点，即现在的宾夕法尼亚大道1600号。在开始筹备新的联邦城市时，举行了一次竞争，以寻找 "总统之家 "的建造者。提交了九份提案，出生于爱尔兰的建筑师詹姆斯-霍本因其实用而英俊的设计获得了金奖。1792年10月，第一块基石奠基后，施工开始。虽然华盛顿总统监督了房子的建造，但他从未在里面住过。直到1800年，当白宫接近完工时，它的第一批居民，约翰-亚当斯总统和他的妻子阿比盖尔才搬进去。从那时起，每位总统都做了自己的改变和补充。白宫毕竟是总统的私人住宅。它也是唯一向公众免费开放的国家元首的私人住宅。

白宫有一段独特而迷人的历史。它在1814年（1812年战争期间）在英国人手中经历了一场火灾，并在1929年赫伯特-胡佛担任总统时，在西翼经历了另一场火灾。在哈里-S-杜鲁门担任总统的大部分时间里，房子的内部，除了三楼之外，都被彻底翻修过，而杜鲁门夫妇就住在宾夕法尼亚大道对面的布莱尔宫。尽管如此，外墙的石墙是两个世纪前白宫建成时首次投入使用的。

总统们可以在他们如何装饰房子的某些部分以及在他们逗留期间如何接待公众方面表达他们的个人风格。

他们逗留期间如何接待公众。托马斯-杰斐逊在1805年举行了第一次就职典礼开放日。

在1805年举行。许多在美国国会大厦参加宣誓仪式的人干脆跟着他回家，他在蓝厅里迎接他们。杰斐逊总统还将房屋开放给公众参观，此后，除战争时期外，房屋一直保持开放。此外，他还在每年的元旦和国庆日欢迎游客参加招待会。1829年，20,000名就职典礼的来宾迫使安德鲁-杰克逊总统逃到了一家酒店的安全地带。

而在草坪上，助手们将橙汁和威士忌灌入洗脸盆，以引诱暴徒离开泥泞的白宫*。

亚伯拉罕-林肯担任总统后，就职典礼的人群变得太多，白宫无法舒适地容纳他们。然而，直到格罗弗-克利夫兰的第一个总统任期，这种不安全的做法才有所改变。他在白宫前建造的一个挂着国旗的看台上举行了总统检阅部队的活动。这个队伍演变成了我们今天所知的正式就职典礼游行。元旦和国庆节的招待会一直持续到20世纪30年代初。在历史上的不同时期，白宫被称为 "总统府"、"总统之家 "和 "行政大厦"。西奥多-罗斯福总统在1901年正式给白宫起了现在的名字。

- 白宫是由谁设计的？

在英美战争期间，这座最古老的联邦建筑发生了什么？

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国语言、历史和文化。(画外音)后来某个时候，没有什么特别的原因。

有人在那位年轻的好总统坐车的时候向他开了枪。

^rrhival Footaae. Dav.

慢动作--肯尼迪总统在一辆敞篷车上站起来，微笑着。福雷斯特。在那之后的几年里...

档案脚步声。

罗伯特-肯尼迪站在讲台上，周围的人都在鼓掌。福雷斯特。(也有人射杀了他的弟弟。

只是他是在酒店的厨房里。

1. 你认为肯尼迪总统和他的弟弟为什么会被暗杀？

2. 肯尼迪政府的主要成就是什么？

通过阅读了解肯尼迪总统任期的前两年发生了哪些危机。

1963年11月22日，当约翰-菲茨杰拉德-肯尼迪的车队穿过德克萨斯州的达拉斯时，他几乎还没有度过他任职的第一千天，就被刺客的子弹杀死。肯尼迪是最年轻的当选总统；他也是最年轻的死亡者。当天下午，在一架飞往华盛顿的空军飞机上，副总统林登-约翰逊宣誓就职，成为美国第三十六届总统。在达拉斯，李-哈维-奥斯瓦尔德被逮捕并被指控犯有暗杀罪。两天后，数百万人在观看电视直播时，看到奥斯瓦尔德在警察的护送下被当地夜总会经营者杰克-鲁比（Jack Ruby）击毙，他们都感到不可思议。

约翰-菲茨杰拉德-肯尼迪有爱尔兰血统，1917年5月29日出生在马萨诸塞州的布鲁克林。1940年从哈佛大学毕业后，他进入海军。1943年，当他的PT船被一艘日本驱逐舰撞沉时，肯尼迪不顾重伤，带领幸存者穿过危险的水域到达安全地带。返回

3.6 肯尼迪总统 阅读剧本并回答问题。

内。白宫。洗手间。

福雷斯特洗了洗手，然后注意到玛丽莲-梦露的亲笔签名和约翰与他哥哥的合影。

鲍比的照片

福瑞斯特。(画外音)后来的某个时候，没有什么特别的原因，有人在那位年轻的好总统骑马时向他开枪。

有人射杀了那位年轻的好总统，当时他正坐在自己的车里。

^rrhival Footaae。Dav.

慢动作--肯尼迪总统在一辆敞篷车上站起来，微笑着。福雷斯特。在那之后的几年里...

档案脚步声。

罗伯特-肯尼迪站在讲台上，周围的人都在鼓掌。福雷斯特。(也有人射杀了他的弟弟。

只是他是在酒店的厨房里。

1. 你认为肯尼迪总统和他的弟弟为什么会被暗杀？

2. 肯尼迪政府的主要成就是什么？

通过阅读了解肯尼迪总统任期的前两年发生了哪些危机。

1963年11月22日，当约翰-菲茨杰拉德-肯尼迪的车队穿过德克萨斯州的达拉斯时，他几乎还没有度过他任职的第一千天，就被刺客的子弹杀死。肯尼迪是最年轻的当选总统；他也是最年轻的死亡者。当天下午，在一架飞往华盛顿的空军飞机上，副总统林登-约翰逊宣誓就职，成为美国第三十六届总统。在达拉斯，李-哈维-奥斯瓦尔德被逮捕并被指控犯有暗杀罪。两天后，数百万人在观看电视直播时，看到奥斯瓦尔德在警察的护送下被当地夜总会经营者杰克-鲁比（Jack Ruby）击毙，他们都感到不可思议。

约翰-菲茨杰拉德-肯尼迪有爱尔兰血统，1917年5月29日出生在马萨诸塞州的布鲁克林。1940年从哈佛大学毕业后，他进入海军。1943年，当他的PT船被一艘日本驱逐舰撞沉时，肯尼迪不顾重伤，带领幸存者穿过危险的水域到达安全地带。战争结束后

战争结束后，他成为波士顿地区的民主党议员，并于1953年进入参议院。1953年9月12日，他与杰奎琳-布维尔结婚。1955年，在背部手术后的休养期间，他写下了《勇气的轮廓》，该书获得了普利策历史奖。

1956年，肯尼迪几乎获得了民主党副总统的提名，四年后成为总统的第一轮提名人。数百万人观看了他与共和党候选人理查德-M-尼克松的电视辩论。肯尼迪以微弱的优势赢得了大众投票，成为第一位罗马天主教徒总统。他的就职演说提出了令人难忘的号召。”不要问你的国家能为你做什么--要问你能为你的国家做什么。"作为总统，他开始兑现他的竞选承诺，让美国再次前进。他的经济计划使美国开始了自二战以来持续时间最长的扩张；在他去世前，他制定了对持续存在的贫困地区进行大规模攻击的计划。

为了应对日益紧迫的需求，他在平等权利的事业上采取了有力的行动，呼吁制定新的民权立法。他对美国的看法延伸到国家文化的质量和艺术在一个重要的社会中的核心作用。他希望美国恢复其作为第一个致力于人权革命的国家的古老使命。通过进步联盟和和平队，他将美国的理想主义带到了发展中国家的援助中。但共产主义挑战的严峻现实依然存在。

在他就职后不久，肯尼迪允许一队已经武装和训练好的古巴流亡者入侵他们的祖国。推翻菲德尔-卡斯特罗政权的尝试是失败的。此后不久，苏联重新开始了对西柏林的行动。肯尼迪的回应是加强了柏林的驻军，增加了国家的军事力量，包括在外太空的新努力。面对这种反应，莫斯科在竖起柏林墙后，放松了对中欧的压力。相反，俄罗斯人现在寻求在古巴安装核导弹。当

1962年10月，当空中侦察发现这一点时，肯尼迪对所有运往古巴的进攻性武器进行了隔离。当世界在核战争的边缘颤抖的时候，俄国人退缩了，同意把导弹拿走。

肯尼迪现在认为，双方在阻止核武器扩散和减缓军备竞赛方面都有重大利益--这一论点导致了1963年的禁试条约。古巴危机后的几个月表明，他在实现 "一个法律和自由选择的世界，驱逐战争和胁迫的世界 "的目标方面取得了重大进展。因此，他的政府看到了美国人的平等权利和世界和平的新希望的开始。苏联在20世纪50年代末发射了许多卫星，在探索太空的竞赛中遥遥领先。1961年4月，尤里-加加林成为第一个进入地球轨道的人。此后不久，肯尼迪总统承诺美国将在1970年之前 "将人送上月球并将其安全送回地球"，1962年2月20日，约翰-格伦中校从佛罗里达州卡纳维拉尔角被送入轨道。美国国家航空和航天局（NASA）允许媒体和电视对其载人飞行进行现场报道。

肯尼迪总统是如何开始在以下各个领域朝着他的 "新领域 "目标前进的：太空探索、经济、民权？

1961年和1962年，哪些事态发展加剧了美国和苏联之间的紧张关系？和平队和进步联盟的目的是什么？

3.7 越南战争 阅读剧本并回答问题。

强大的武装。(通过无线电)你离裂缝空气很危险，完毕。福瑞斯特被什么东西绊倒，摔在地上。他抬头一看

发现两条血淋淋的腿。那是丹中尉，他受伤了。他对着无线电说。

丹中尉。(收到，Strongarm，我知道我的位置。

...危险接近了! 这个地区到处都有查理人！我必须让那些快速移动的人在这里了！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤！撤

强臂。(通过无线电)6号，强者，我们要... Forrest: 丹中尉，科尔曼死了！

我知道他已经死了! 我的整个该死的排

全军覆没！

Strongarm: (利马6号腿，利马6号腿，如何复制你的

这个信号？完毕。

福雷斯特试图抱起丹中尉，后者试图推开福雷斯特**。

丹中尉。该死的！你在做什么？把我丢在这里! 快走吧。把我留在这里！滚出去！

福雷斯特把丹中尉拉到他的肩上，跑过丛林。

强壮的手臂。腿利马6，腿利马6。这里是Strongarm，请注意，你的快速运输机此时已经进场，完毕。福雷斯特。(然后感觉就像有什么东西跳了起来

咬我。

福瑞斯特倒下了。

福瑞斯特。啊，有东西咬了我!

福瑞斯特在丹中尉的喊声中站了起来。丹中尉用手枪向看不见的敌人射击，弗勒斯特把他拉开。

丹中尉：你这个狗娘养的! 我不能离开这个排! 我说过

你把我留在那里，阿甘。忘了我吧。你自己出去吧！你听到我说的话了吗！该死的，把我拉下来！把你的屁股移开！

福瑞斯特把丹中尉扔在岸边，旁边是其他受伤的士兵。丹中尉抓着福雷斯特的衣服，很生气。

我没有让你把我从那里拉出来，该死的！你以为你是谁？

你以为你要去干什么？福瑞斯特。去找布巴。

现在有一场空袭正在进行中。他们要炸毁整个地区。

福瑞斯特站起来跑了，丹中尉在他后面大喊。

丹中尉。阿甘，你留在这里，该死的！这是个命令！福瑞斯特。我得去找布巴!

福瑞斯特在丛林中奔跑，寻找布巴。弗勒斯放慢脚步，仔细观察四周

福瑞斯特...

福瑞斯特。布巴...

布巴躺在地上，抬起头来。

布巴：我很好。

布巴用手掌心的树叶捂住伤口。福瑞斯特取下棕榈叶，看了看伤口。布巴的胸部被炸开了。福瑞斯特。哦，布巴，不...

布巴：不，我不会有事的。

福瑞斯特环顾四周，他听到了敌人的声音。福瑞斯特。来吧。来吧，来吧。来这里...

福瑞斯特带着布巴穿过丛林。空气中弥漫着飞机驶来的声音。

我很好，弗勒斯。我没事。

接近的飞机的轰鸣声震耳欲聋。福瑞斯特恐惧地抬起头。三架飞机向丛林俯冲下来。他们发射凝固汽油弹，丛林中的巨大火球爆炸了。福瑞斯特抱着布巴跑了起来。火球在他身后爆炸了。福瑞斯特跑的时候，整个丛林地区都在燃烧，福瑞斯特背着巴布来到河岸。丹中尉和其他受伤的士兵们在等待救援直升机。

丹中尉：直升机来了。顶上的烟，把它弄上去!

福瑞斯特。(如果我知道这将是我和布巴最后一次谈话，我就会想到

我就会想到更好的说法。

福瑞斯特低头看着布巴。一个士兵放出一个烟筒。

福瑞斯特。嘿，布巴...

巴布：嘿，弗勒斯。福瑞斯特，为什么会发生这种事？

福瑞斯特。你中枪了。

福瑞斯特。(然后布巴说了一句我都不会忘记的话。布巴：我想回家。

福瑞斯特。布巴是我最好的好朋友。连我都知道

也不是随随便便就能找到的。布巴本来要当捕虾船船长的，但他却死在了越南的那条河边。

直升机从头顶飞过。

1. 你记得关于越南战争的哪些事实？

2. 你对派遣援助以建立和维持亲西方的民主影响的政策有何看法？

阅读了解美国参与越南战争与参与朝鲜战争、参与第二次世界大战有什么不同。你能将这些差异与公众对每场战争的态度联系起来吗？

点燃了美国对东南亚的反共情绪，并将导致白宫的外交政策目标是 "遏制 "共产党在该地区的扩张。

1950

1950年1月--中华人民共和国和苏联承认胡志明的越南民主共和国。随后，中国开始向越南人民派遣军事顾问和现代武器，包括自动武器、迫击炮、榴弹炮和卡车。

1950年2月--美国和英国承认保大的法国控制的南越政府。

1 9 5 0年2月7日--美国爆发了 "麦卡锡主义 "时代，威斯康星州的参议员约瑟夫-R-麦卡锡发表演讲，声称美国国务院窝藏共产主义者。由于麦卡锡主义的影响，没有一个美国政治家愿意对共产主义表现出 "软弱"。

1950年6月30日--在共产党北朝鲜入侵韩国后，哈里-杜鲁门总统命令美国地面部队进入韩国。在给美国人民的电文中，杜鲁门将这次入侵描述为莫斯科支持的 "一元化的世界共产主义 "的攻击。

1950年7月26日--随着哈里-杜鲁门总统授权向法国提供1500万美元的军事援助，美国开始介入越南的军事行动。

1953

1953年1月20日--前五星陆军将军、二战期间欧洲盟军指挥官德怀特-艾森豪威尔（Dwight D. Eisenhower）就任第34任美国总统。为了证明美国的财政承诺，艾森豪威尔将引用 "多米诺理论"，其中共产党在越南的胜利将导致周边国家像 "一排排倒下的多米诺骨牌 "一样一个接一个地倒下。多米诺骨牌理论将被一连串的总统和他们的顾问用来证明美国在越南的介入程度不断加深的理由。

冲突的种子(1945-1960)

1941

共产主义活动家胡志明在流亡30年后秘密返回越南，并组织了一个被称为越南独立联盟（Viet Minh）的民族主义组织。

1945

1945年7月--纳粹德国战败后，包括美国、英国和苏联在内的二战盟国在德国召开波茨坦会议，规划战后的世界。越南被认为是议程上的一个小项目。为了解除在越南的日本人的武装，盟国在北纬16度线上将该国一分为二。中国国民党将进驻并解除平行线以北的日本人的武装，而英国人将进驻并在南部做同样的工作。会议期间，法国代表要求归还法国在东南亚（印度支那）的所有战前殖民地。他们的要求被批准了。越南、老挝和柬埔寨将在日本人被赶走后再次成为法国殖民地，1945年8月--日本无条件投降。越南的傀儡皇帝保大退位。胡志明的游击队占领河内并宣布成立临时政府。

1949

1949年10月--毛泽东的共产主义部队在中国内战中击败了蒋介石的国民党军队。毛泽东的胜利

点燃了美国对东南亚的反共情绪，并将导致白宫在该地区 "遏制 "共产主义扩张的外交政策目标的形成。

1950

1950年1月--中华人民共和国和苏联承认胡志明的越南民主共和国。随后，中国开始向越南人民派遣军事顾问和现代武器，包括自动武器、迫击炮、榴弹炮和卡车。

1950年2月--美国和英国承认保大的法国控制的南越政府。

1 9 5 0年2月7日--美国爆发了 "麦卡锡主义 "时代，威斯康星州的参议员约瑟夫-R-麦卡锡发表演讲，声称美国国务院窝藏共产主义者。由于麦卡锡主义的影响，没有一个美国政治家愿意对共产主义表现出 "软弱"。

1950年6月30日--在共产党北朝鲜入侵韩国后，哈里-杜鲁门总统命令美国地面部队进入韩国。在给美国人民的电文中，杜鲁门将这次入侵描述为莫斯科支持的 "一元化的世界共产主义 "的攻击。

1950年7月26日--随着哈里-杜鲁门总统授权向法国提供1500万美元的军事援助，美国开始介入越南的军事行动。

1953

1953年1月20日--前五星陆军将军、二战期间欧洲盟军指挥官德怀特-艾森豪威尔（Dwight D. Eisenhower）就任第34任美国总统。为了证明美国的财政承诺，艾森豪威尔将引用 "多米诺理论"，其中共产党在越南的胜利将导致周边国家像 "一排排倒下的多米诺骨牌 "一样一个接一个地倒下。多米诺骨牌理论将被一连串的总统和他们的顾问用来证明美国在越南的介入程度不断加深的理由。

冲突的种子(1945-1960)

1941

共产主义活动家胡志明在流亡30年后秘密返回越南，并组织了一个被称为越南独立联盟（Viet Minh）的民族主义组织。

1945

1945年7月--纳粹德国战败后，包括美国、英国和苏联在内的二战盟国在德国召开波茨坦会议，规划战后的世界。越南被认为是议程上的一个小项目。为了解除在越南的日本人的武装，盟国在北纬16度线上将该国一分为二。中国国民党将进驻并解除平行线以北的日本人的武装，而英国人将进驻并在南部做同样的工作。会议期间，法国代表要求归还法国在东南亚（印度支那）的所有战前殖民地。他们的要求被批准了。越南、老挝和柬埔寨将在日本人被赶走后再次成为法国殖民地，1945年8月--日本无条件投降。越南的傀儡皇帝保大退位。胡志明的游击队占领河内并宣布成立临时政府。

1949

1949年10月--毛泽东的共产主义部队在中国内战中击败了蒋介石的国民党军队。毛泽东的胜利

1953年7月27日--朝鲜战争结束，签署了停战协议，在三八线上将该国分为共产主义的北方和民主的南方。国际社会中的许多人将停战视为解决越南境内持续冲突的潜在模式。

1955

1955年1月--美国第一次直接向西贡运送军事援助。

抵达西贡。美国还提出对新生的南越军队进行培训。

1955年7月--胡志明访问莫斯科，同意接受苏联的援助。

1957

1957年1月--苏联提议将越南永久划分为北方和南方，并让这两个国家分别加入联合国。美国拒绝了这一建议，不愿意承认共产党的北越。

美国承诺（1961-1964年

1961

1961年1月--苏联总理尼基塔-赫鲁晓夫承诺支持全世界的 "民族解放战争"。他的声明极大地鼓励了北越的共产党人升级他们的武装斗争，在胡志明的领导下统一越南。

1961年1月20日--约翰-菲茨杰拉德-肯尼迪就任第35任美国总统，并宣布"......我们将付出任何代价，承担任何负担，迎接任何困难，支持任何朋友，反对任何敌人，以确保自由的生存和成功。" 1961年10月--为了获得关于不断恶化的军事形势的第一手资料，肯尼迪的高级助手麦克斯韦-泰勒和沃尔特-罗斯托访问了越南。泰勒向总统报告说："如果越南消失了，那么要守住东南亚将是极其困难的。"他建议肯尼迪扩大美国军事顾问的数量，并派出8000名作战士兵。

1961年12月--越共游击队现在控制了南越的大部分农村，并经常伏击南越军队。

1963

1963年11月22日--约翰-肯尼迪总统在达拉斯被暗杀。林登-B-约翰逊宣誓就职，成为第36任美国总统。他是第四位处理越南问题的总统，并将监督战争的大规模升级，同时利用许多曾为肯尼迪服务的政策顾问。

1964

夏天--当56,000名越共在整个南越散布他们成功的游击战时*，他们得到了通过胡志明小道涌入的北越军队（NVA）正规军的增援。为了应对这种升级，约翰逊总统批准了 "34A计划"，即由中央情报局管理的秘密行动，利用南越突击队员乘坐快艇骚扰北越海岸线上的雷达站。

丛林战争（1965-1968

1965

1965年1月--"游戏管理员行动 "开始了美国海军在越南南部3000海里的内陆水道上的河流巡逻。

1965年2月4日--国家安全顾问麦克乔治-邦迪首次访问南越。在北越，苏联总理阿列克谢-柯西金巧合地抵达河内。

2月6日，1 965年--越共游击队袭击了位于中央高地的普莱古的美军驻地，杀死了8名美国人，打伤了6名，并摧毁了10架飞机。2月7-8日--"我已经受够了，"约翰逊总统告诉他的国家安全顾问。然后他批准了 "火焰镖 "行动，由美国海军 "游侠 "号航母上的喷气式飞机对东海附近的一个北越军队营地进行轰炸。在河内。

苏联总理柯西金受到北越人的压力，要求他提供无限的军事援助来对付美国的 "侵略"。柯西金屈服于他们的要求。结果，复杂的苏联地对空导弹（SAM）在几周内开始运抵河内。

1965年3月8日--第一批美国作战部队抵达越南，3500名海军陆战队员在中国海滩登陆，保卫岘港的美国空军基地。他们加入了已经在越南的23000名美国军事顾问。

1965年3月9日--约翰逊总统授权使用凝固汽油弹，这是一种以石油为基础的杀伤性炸弹，撞击后会喷出数以百计的爆炸性颗粒物。

1965年8月18日至24日--"星光行动 "开始了美国在越南的第一次重大地面行动。

美国海军陆战队对计划袭击美军楚莱机场的1500名越共进行了先发制人的打击。在对越共阵地进行猛烈的炮击和空袭之后，海军陆战队通过直升机和海路抵达。45名海军陆战队员被打死，120人受伤。越共遭受614人死亡，9人被俘。这一决定性的首次胜利极大地鼓舞了美国部队的士气。

1965年8月31日--约翰逊总统签署了一项法律，将焚烧征兵卡的行为定为犯罪。尽管这可能会导致五年的监禁和1000美元的罚款，但在反战集会期间，焚烧行为变得很普遍，并经常引起新闻媒体的注意。1965年10月16日--40个美国城市和包括伦敦和罗马在内的国际城市发生反战集会。

1966

1966年，参议院外交关系委员会就战争的进行举行了听证会。听证会表明，即使是政府官员，也存在着支持战争的人（"鹰派"）和反对美国参与的人（"鸽派"）之间的激烈分歧。鹰派 "坚持认为，这场战争是北越对南方的侵略迫使美国发动的。他们声称，美国在南越打击共产主义，是在防止共产主义接管整个东南亚。"鸽派 "认为，美国没有令人信服的理由来证明其巨大的牺牲。

他们指出了战争的惊人成本--仅在1967年就有200亿美元。不断上升的国防预算给约翰逊带来了压力，使他不得不削减他的伟大社会社会计划。

1966年1月31日--参议员罗伯特-肯尼迪批评约翰逊总统恢复轰炸的决定，指出美国可能正走向 "一条无法回头的道路，一条导致全人类灾难的道路"。他的评论激怒了总统。

1967

9月11日-10月31日--美国海军陆战队在位于非军事区以南两英里的康提恩（Con Thien）被新军围困。在围困期间，NVA和美国的火炮之间爆发了一场大规模的远程炮火对决，NVA向海军陆战队发射了42,000发炮弹，而美国则以281,000发炮弹和B-52的空袭作为回应，解除了围困。NVA的损失估计超过2,000人。

1967年10月--一项民意调查显示，46%的美国人现在认为美国在越南的军事介入是

是一个 "错误"。然而，大多数美国人也认为，美国应该在越南 "不赢就滚蛋"。

10月2日 1 - 2 3 - "向五角大楼进军 "吸引了55000名抗议者。在伦敦，抗议者试图冲击美国大使馆。1967年10月31日--约翰逊总统重申了他对维持美国在南越的参与的承诺。

1968

1968年1月21日--吉普将军指挥的20,000名北越军队袭击了位于溪山的美国空军基地。一场为期77天的围攻开始了，5000名美国海军陆战队员在这个孤立的前哨被包围了。这次围攻在美国引起了媒体的极大关注，许多人将其与1954年的奠边府战役相提并论。

奠边府战役，其中法国人被包围，然后被打败。尼亚加拉二号行动开始了：对被围困的海军陆战队进行大规模的空中补给，同时用B-52对NVA部队的阵地进行猛烈轰炸。在战斗的高峰期。

在这次围攻中，每隔90分钟就有三架B-52轰炸机对士兵进行24小时不间断的轰炸，这些轰炸机投下了超过110,000吨的炸弹，这是战争史上最猛烈的轰炸。

1968年1月31日--战争的转折点出现了，84,000名越共游击队员在北越军队的协助下发动了T型攻势，袭击了越南南部的一百个城市和城镇。

越南。在越南的美国电视新闻摄制组密切观察了这次突如其来的攻势，他们拍摄了美国驻西哥大使馆被17名越共突击队员袭击的画面，以及战斗地区的血腥场面，显示出美国士兵被压制，死亡和受伤。然后，这些生动的彩色电影镜头被迅速转播到美国，在夜间新闻节目中播出！美国国内的美国人就这样在前排看到了这些镜头。因此，国内的美国人在他们的客厅里可以看到万里之外的越共/北越军对他们的父亲、儿子和兄弟进行的攻击，这就是前排座位。

1968年2月27日--有影响力的CBS电视新闻主播沃尔特-克朗凯特刚刚从西贡回来，他在CBS晚间新闻广播中告诉美国人，他确信 "越南的血腥经历将以僵局结束"。

1968年3月14日--参议员罗伯特-肯尼迪（Robert F. Kennedy）向约翰逊总统提出一个秘密的政治建议。

约翰逊提出了一个保密的政治建议。如果约翰逊放弃他早先的越南战略并任命一个包括肯尼迪在内的委员会来制定越南的新方针，肯尼迪将同意不参加总统竞选。约翰逊拒绝了这个提议。

1968年3月16日--罗伯特-F-肯尼迪宣布他将成为总统候选人。民意调查显示，肯尼迪现在比总统更受欢迎。在竞选期间，肯尼迪在谈到他参与制定约翰-F-肯尼迪总统的越南政策的问题时说："过去的错误不是其自身延续的借口。"

1968年3月25日--国防部长克拉克-克利福德（Clark Clifford）在国务院召集 "智囊团"，十几位杰出的老政治家和军人，包括前国务卿迪安-艾奇逊（Dean Acheson）和二战时期的奥马尔-布拉德利将军，共进晚餐。他们对越南的局势进行了直截了当的评估，包括西贡政府的普遍腐败和不大可能的前景。

包括西贡政府的普遍腐败和 "在目前情况下 "不太可能取得军事胜利的前景。

1968年3月31日--约翰逊总统宣布其不寻求连任的意外决定，令世界震惊。他还宣布部分停止轰炸，并敦促河内开始和平谈判。"我们准备立即通过谈判走向和平"。结果，和平谈判很快开始。轰炸的停止只影响到20度线以北的目标，包括河内。

1 9 6 8年4月4日--民权领袖马丁-路德-金牧师博士在孟菲斯被暗杀。随后，美国100多个城市爆发了种族骚乱。

1968年4月23日--哥伦比亚大学的反战分子占领了五座大楼。

1968年5月10日--和平谈判在巴黎开始，但由于美国坚持要求北越军队从南方撤出，而北越则坚持要求越共参与南越的联合政府，谈判很快陷入僵局。这标志着美国和北越在巴黎进行的五年来断断续续的正式会谈的开始。

1968年6月5日--罗伯特-肯尼迪在赢得加州民主党总统初选后，在洛杉矶被一名年轻的巴勒斯坦人Sirhan Sirhan枪击并受重伤，他因肯尼迪支持以色列而感到愤怒。

1968年7月--国会通过了10%的所得税附加费，以支付不断膨胀的战争费用。

1968年8月8日--理查德-M-尼克松被选为共和党总统候选人，并承诺 "体面地结束越南战争"。

1968年8月28日--在芝加哥举行的民主党全国大会期间，1万名反战抗议者聚集在市中心的街道上，然后遭到2.6万名警察和国民警卫队队员的阻击。网络电视对这次残酷的镇压进行了直播。800名示威者受伤。美国现在正经历着自一百年前的美国内战时代以来从未见过的社会动荡程度。1968年至今，在101所高校中共发生了221次学生抗议活动。

1968年11月5日--共和党人理查德-M-尼克松在美国总统选举中以微弱优势击败了民主党人休伯特-汉弗莱。1968年11月27日--当选总统尼克松要求哈佛大学教授亨利-基辛格担任他的国家安全顾问。基辛格接受了邀请。

痛苦的结局（1969-1975

1969

1969年1月20日--理查德-M-尼克松就任第37任美国总统，并宣称："......历史能够赋予的最大荣誉是和平缔造者的称号。这一荣誉现在正向美国招手......"

1969年9月2日--胡志明因心脏病发作去世，享年79岁。他的继任者是李端，他公开宣读了胡志明的遗嘱，敦促北越人继续战斗，"直到最后一个美国人离开"。

1969年9月5日--美国军队就1968年3月在美莱屠杀越南平民的事件对威廉-卡利中尉提出谋杀指控。

1969年9月1日--尼克松总统下令从越南撤出35000名士兵，并减少征兵。1969年10月--一项民意调查显示，71%的美国人赞同尼克松总统的越南政策。1 9 6 9年10月1 5日--"暂停 "和平示威在华盛顿和几个美国城市举行。

1 9 6 9年12月1日--二战以来的第一次征兵抽签在纽约市举行。一年中的每一天都被分配了一个数字。那些在数字低的日子里过生日的人很可能会被征召。

1970

1970年3月18日--柬埔寨西哈努克亲王被朗诺将军废黜，政变发生时他不在国内，然后与柬埔寨共产党人（即红色高棉）结盟，努力推翻朗诺的政权。红色高棉由一个名叫波尔波的不知名人物领导，他热衷于利用西哈努克亲王的巨大威望和声望来增加西哈努克亲王的影响力。

他热衷于利用西哈努克亲王的巨大威望和知名度来增加柬埔寨人对其红色高棉运动的支持。波尔布特后来用暴力推翻了朗诺，然后开始进行激进的实验，创造一个农业乌托邦，导致全国25%的人口（200万人）死于饥饿、过度劳累和系统的处决。

1 9 7 0年3月--朗诺将军领导的柬埔寨军队在柬埔寨境内攻击红色高棉和北越部队。在白宫，尼克松和高级助手们讨论了援助朗诺亲美政权的计划。

1 9 7 0年4月3日--尼克松总统宣布美国和南越入侵柬埔寨，令美国人震惊。这一宣布引起了政治家、媒体、学生、教授、神职人员、商界领袖和许多普通美国人对尼克松和越南战争的抗议浪潮。

1972

1972年1月25日--尼克松总统宣布了一项拟议的越南八点和平计划，还透露说基辛格一直在与北越进行秘密谈判。然而，河内拒绝了尼克松的和平姿态。

2月21日至28日--尼克松总统访问中国，会见了毛泽东和周恩来总理，与这个共产党国家建立了新的外交关系。尼克松的访问引起了河内的极大关注，他们的战时盟友中国可能倾向于同意不利的战争解决方案以改善中国与美国的关系。

1973

1973年1月27日--美国、北越、南越和越共签署《巴黎和平协定》。根据条款，美国同意立即停止所有军事活动，并在60天内撤出所有剩余军事人员。北越同意立即停火，并在60天内释放所有美国战俘（POWs）。越南仍然处于分裂状态。南越被

被认为是一个国家，有两个政府，一个由铁牛总统领导，另一个由越共领导，等待未来的和解。

1 973年3月29日--最后剩下的美国军队从越南撤走，尼克松总统宣布 "我们努力和祈祷的日子终于到来了"。美国最漫长的战争和它的第一次失败就此结束。在15年的军事行动中，超过200万美国人在越南服役，其中50万人参加了实际战斗。47,244人在战斗中丧生。还有

有10,446人在非战斗中死亡。153,329人受重伤，包括10,000名截肢者。

1973年7月17日--国防部长詹姆斯-施莱辛格（James Schlesinge）在武装部队委员会面前作证说，为了保护美国军队，他们向柬埔寨发动了3500次轰炸，目标是北越军的阵地。尼克松的秘密轰炸行动的程度激怒了国会中的许多人，并导致了对尼克松的第一次弹劾。

导致尼克松被弹劾。

1973年8月14日--美国在柬埔寨的轰炸活动根据凯斯-丘奇修正案规定的国会禁令而停止了。

1973年8月22日--亨利-基辛格被尼克松总统任命为新的国务卿，接替威廉-罗杰斯。

1974

1974年5月9日--国会开始对尼克松总统的弹劾程序，该程序源于水门事件丑闻。1974年8月9日--理查德-M-尼克松因水门事件而辞去总统职务。杰拉尔德-R-福特宣誓就任第38任美国总统，成为第六位处理越南问题的总统。1974年9月--美国国会只为南越拨款7亿美元。这使得南越军队的资金不足，导致军事准备和士气下降。

1975

1 9 7 5年4月2 3日--10万名新军士兵向西贡推进，西贡现在已经被难民淹没了。

1 9 7 5年4月2日--西贡被包围了。30,000名南越士兵在城内，但没有领导。当城市爆发出混乱和广泛的抢劫时，南越军向市中心的平民区发射火箭。

1975年4月28日--"中立派 "将军杨文 "大 "明成为南越的新总统，呼吁停火。他的呼吁被置之不理。

1 9 7 5年4月2日--福特总统现在下令开展 "常风行动"，用直升机将7000名美国人和南越人从西贡撤离，开始时在电台上播放歌曲 "白色圣诞"，作为预结盟的密码信号。在新山湖，疯狂的平民开始涌向直升机。撤离工作随后转移到有围墙的美国大使馆，由穿着全套战斗装备的美国海军陆战队员负责保护。但那里的情况也在恶化，因为成千上万的平民试图进入大院。三艘美国航空母舰在越南海岸边待命，以处理入境的美国人和南越难民。许多南越飞行员也在航母上降落，他们驾驶着美国制造的直升机，然后被推下船，为更多抵达者腾出空间。拍摄的25万美元的直升机被扔进海里的镜头成为战争结束后的一个永恒的画面。

1 9 7 5年4月3日--上午8时35分，最后一批美国人，即来自大使馆的10名海军陆战队员，离开西贡，结束了美国在越南的存在。北越军队涌入西贡，没有遇到什么抵抗。明总统广播了无条件投降的信息。战争结束了。北越和南越在苏联的统治下实现了统一。

- 列出布森豪威尔总统和肯尼迪总统在越南采取的行动。

- 1968年3月，约翰逊总统针对越南战争中越来越多的反对意见，采取了哪两项行动？

- 谁是 "鹰派"？谁是 "鸽派"？他们用什么论据来支持自己的立场？

- 北部湾决议如何标志着越南冲突的一个转折点？

哪些因素促成了美国对越南的介入？是什么原因导致对战争的反对意见增加？

3.8 更加激进的黑人运动

阅读剧本，回答问题。

进入。黑豹党总部。店面。华盛顿特区。尼格尔

福雷斯特站在一扇打开的窗户前，看着白宫。

福雷斯特。(画外音)珍妮和我只是豌豆和胡萝卜

又是如此。她带我参观，甚至介绍

一些她的新朋友。

一个叫鲁本的黑豹子走过来，把遮阳板拉下来。

鲁本：闭上眼睛，伙计。把你的白屁股从

那扇窗户。你不知道我们在这里打仗吗？

另一个叫马赛的黑豹党人抓住福雷斯特，把他拍倒。> 嘿，伙计，他很冷静。他很冷静。他是我们的一员。他是一个

我们的一员。

马赛。让我告诉你我们的情况。

卫斯理：你到底去哪儿了？

珍妮：我碰到了一个朋友。

马赛: 我们在这里的目的是保护我们的黑人领袖免受

我们在这里的目的是保护我们的黑人领袖不受那些想残害我们的黑人领袖、强奸我们的妇女和消灭我们的黑人共产主义者的猪的种族攻击。

黑豹。马赛，电话。和这些人谈谈。

卫斯理：谁是婴儿杀手？

珍妮：这是我跟你说过的好朋友。这就是阿甘

阿甘。弗勒斯，这位是韦斯利。韦斯利和我住在一起！在伯克利，他是S.D.S.伯克利分会的主席。

马赛。让我告诉你一些别的事情。

卫斯理：我想和你谈谈。

詹妮。好的，但是...

韦斯利：不，现在！该死的！

Masai: 我们在这里为所有需要帮助的人提供保护和帮助

因为我们，黑豹组织，反对越南战争。是的，我们反对任何黑人士兵被派往前线为一个憎恨他们的国家而牺牲的战争。是的，我们反对任何黑人士兵去打仗的战争，在他们自己的社区里，当他们晚上睡在自己的床上时，却被残暴地杀害。是的，我们反对所有这些种族主义者和帝国狗的行为。

1. 为什么一些黑人领袖要求对种族隔离采取更激进的策略？

2. 你认为激进的黑人民权运动对其他少数民族有什么影响？

阅读了解为什么黑人民权运动变得更加激进。

1963年后，越来越多的非裔美国人领导人开始相信，非暴力策略的效果不够快。这些激进的领导人特别关注北方黑人的问题。事实上的隔离，即由住房模式造成的隔离，而不是由法律造成的隔离，使大多数北方黑人生活在破旧的贫民区，他们住在水管和暖气不足的破旧建筑里。虽然自1950年以来，黑人的平均收入有所提高，但他们的收入仍然低于白人，失业率也更高。

激进分子要求立即采取严厉的行动来消除这种状况。一个团体，即黑人穆斯林，认为非裔美国人应该完全与白人社会分离。这些观点在1960年代初由一位名叫马尔科姆-X的黑人穆斯林牧师传播。

1965年2月，马尔科姆-X被枪杀，这可能是他与黑人穆斯林交往的结果。他在《马尔科姆-X自传》中表达的思想仍然具有影响力。

斯托克利-卡迈克尔和弗洛-麦基西克等激进的黑人领袖拒绝与白人合作，而是发出 "黑人权力 "的要求。他们认为，黑人应该掌握他们生活的经济和政治方面，即使这需要暴力革命。黑豹组织敦促他们的黑人 "兄弟 "武装自己，必要时为自己的权利而战。

温和的黑人领袖在接受黑人权力的想法时强调，它应该采取自力更生和自豪的形式，而不是暴力。民意调查显示，大多数非裔美国人倾向于融合的目标，并赞成对黑人权力更温和的解释。然而，激进团体的暴力语言引起了广泛的关注。

到了十年中期，黑人聚居区的挫折感和绝望感爆发为暴力。1964年夏天，暴乱席卷了纽约的哈林区和罗切斯特。1965年8月，洛杉矶贫民区爆发了更大的暴力事件。沃茨。骚乱、焚烧和掠夺持续了五天。当国民警卫队的14000名士兵恢复秩序时，34人死亡，4000人被捕，财产损失达3500万美元。1966年和1967年，主要城市爆发了暴乱，包括纽瓦克、辛辛那提、亚特兰大和底特律。骚乱在发生的黑人社区造成了巨大的破坏和绝望。他们还加剧了 "白人的反弹"，或对黑人要求平等的负面情绪。

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国语言、历史和文化 3.9 尼克森的外交政策

阅读剧本，回答问题。

场景。退伍军人管理局医院。休息室。Dav.

电视上播放尼尔-阿姆斯特朗在月球上迈出第一步的镜头。

尼尔-阿姆斯特朗：这是人的一小步，是人类的一大步。这......这表面是精细的粉状物。我可以，我可以松散地捡起它。

福雷斯特向一些受伤的退伍军人展示了一个乒乓球。

福雷斯特。(画外音)我以为我会回到越南，但相反，他们决定让我打击共产党的最好方式是打乒乓球。所以我参加了特勤队，在全国各地为所有受伤的退伍军人打气，教他们如何打球......

巴士站。目前。达夫。

福雷斯特看着一个人。

福雷斯特：......乒乓球。我打得很好，以至于一些年后...

中国境外。乒乓球比赛。闪回。达夫

福雷斯特与一名中国选手打乒乓球。墙上挂着一幅毛泽东的大型壁画。一群共产党领导人坐在那里观看。-

福雷斯特。(福雷斯特：（画外音）......军队决定我应该加入美国乒乓球队。

美国乒乓球队。我们是一百万年来第一个访问中国的美国人，有人说世界和平就在我们手中。但我所做的只是打乒乓球。

1. 为什么美国的登月计划是人类的一次巨大飞跃？

为什么美国在20世纪70年代开始坚持与中华人民共和国的缓和政策？

80

81

为什么非裔美国人放弃了马丁-路德-金的非暴力策略？

马丁-路德-金的非暴力策略？2. 激进的黑人主张采取什么策略？

- 城市黑人骚乱的两个重要结果是什么？

3.9 尼克松的外交政策

阅读剧本并回答问题。

在这里。退伍军人管理局医院。休息室。戴。

电视上播放尼尔-阿姆斯特朗在月球上迈出第一步的镜头。

尼尔-阿姆斯特朗：这是人的一小步，是人类的一大步。这......这表面是精细的粉状物。我可以，我可以松散地捡起它。

福雷斯特向一些受伤的退伍军人展示了一个乒乓球。

福雷斯特。(画外音)我以为我会回到越南，但相反，他们决定让我打击共产党的最好方式是打乒乓球。所以我参加了特勤队，在全国各地为所有受伤的退伍军人打气，教他们如何打球......

巴士站。目前。达夫。

福雷斯特看着一个人。

福雷斯特：......乒乓球。我打得很好，以至于一些年后...

中国境外。乒乓球比赛。闪回。达夫

福雷斯特与一名中国选手打乒乓球。墙上挂着一幅毛泽东的大型壁画。一群共产党领导人坐在那里观看。-

福雷斯特。(福雷斯特：（画外音）......军队决定我应该加入美国乒乓球队。

美国乒乓球队。我们是一百万年来第一个访问中国的美国人，有人说世界和平就在我们手中。但我所做的只是打乒乓球。

1. 为什么美国的登月计划是人类的一次巨大飞跃？

为什么美国在20世纪70年代开始坚持与中华人民共和国的缓和政策？

通过阅读了解尼克松总统的外交政策是如何重新定义美国在国际社会的角色的。

共产党在中国内战中取得胜利后，中华人民共和国和美国之间有超过20年的直接接触。当国家之间的关系在20世纪70年代初解冻时，美国乒乓球队的青少年成为第一批访问中国的美国人。

尼克松总统在整个政治生涯中都是一个坚定的反共分子。但50年代末中苏之间的分裂为美国提供了一个取得外交成果的机会。1971年7月，白宫首席外交政策顾问亨利-基辛格（Hen Kissinger）秘密前往中国，安排对中国的访问。

1971年7月，白宫首席外交政策顾问亨利-基辛格秘密访华，安排尼克松总统于次年2月访问中国。尼克松和基辛格认为，世界不能再被看作是分为两个对立的共产主义和非共产主义集团。相反，现在有许多权力中心，包括欧洲、日本、中国、中东、苏联和美国。因此，美国的外交政策应该对每个权力中心追求不同的目标。在一项被称为尼克松主义的政策中，总统说：美国将参与盟国和朋友的防御和发展，但不能也不会设想所有的计划，设计所有的方案*执行所有的决定和承担世界上所有自由国家的防御。我们将帮助那些真正有作用的地方

我们将帮助那些能带来真正变化并被认为符合我们利益的地方。

在尼克松访问期间，他参观了中国的长城，出席了宴会，并与中国领导人毛泽东会面。两位领导人就科学和文化交流达成一致，并表示有兴趣增加贸易。一年后，中国和美国迈出了正式承认的步伐。

美国与中国关系的任何变化都必然会影响其与中国的竞争对手苏联的关系。

因此，尼克松做出了改善与莫斯科关系的姿态。1972年5月，他访问了苏联，是二战以来第一位访问苏联的总统。他的访问标志着缓和时代的开始，两个超级大国之间的紧张关系有所缓和。

在莫斯科期间，尼克松和勃列日涅夫签署了一项军控协议，即《限制战略武器条约》（SALT）。该条约限制了每个国家可以部署的核弹头和导弹的类型和数量。尼克松总统的访问还开辟了国际合作和向苏联出售美国东西的新途径。大多数美国人渴望减少国际紧张局势和核战争的威胁，赞同缓和。

82

83

通过电影《阿甘正传》重点介绍美国语言、历史和文化

- -

尼克松对外交政策的态度是什么？描述一下尼克松学说。

尼克松在1972年的访问中与中国达成了什么协议？

为什么尼克松作为反共分子的声誉会帮助他赢得对其外交政策的接受？

3.10 水灾危机

阅读剧本，回答问题。

外景：白宫。白宫。

一名主播在白宫前报道。

主播：美国乒乓球队今天在椭圆形办公室的仪式上与尼克松总统会面......

福雷斯特。(画外音)你不知道吗...

现在。巴士站。

福瑞斯特看着巴士长椅上的胖子。

福瑞斯特：......几个月后，他们邀请我和乒乓球队去参观白宫。于是我又去了。而且我又见到了美国总统。

进。白宫。日。

一块颁发给福雷斯特的牌子上写着 "颁发给美国乒乓球队成员福雷斯特-古姆，作为1971年的年度最佳球员"。尼克松总统拿着这块牌子。

福瑞斯特。(只是这一次他们没有给我们安排房间

一个真正的豪华酒店。

尼克松总统。那么，你在我们的国家首都享受吗？

首都，年轻人？福雷斯特。是的，先生。

尼克松总统。那么，你住在哪里？

福雷斯特： 它叫埃博特酒店。

总统： 哦，不，不，不，不。我知道有一家更好的酒店。它是

尼克松全新的。非常现代。我会让我的人帮你打理的。

内。水门酒店房间。夜间。

福里斯特在电话里说。

保安员。保安，我是弗兰克-威尔斯。

福瑞斯特走到一个窗口。手电筒在福瑞斯特房间对面的一间办公室里走动。

福瑞斯特。是的，先生，你可能想派一个维修人员

到对面的办公室去。灯是关着的，他们一定是在找保险丝盒或什么东西，因为他们的手电筒让我无法入睡。

保安员。好的，先生。我去看看。福雷斯特。谢谢你。

保安员。没问题。

福瑞斯特。晚安。

保安员。晚安。

福瑞斯特挂断了电话。镜头向下倾斜，显示出酒店的固定位置，上面写着 "水门酒店"。

内景。体育馆。白天。

尼克松总统在电视上发表了辞职演说。

尼克松总统。(通过电视)因此，我将从明天中午起辞去总统职务。

电视机切换到尼克松总统站在空军一号外面，双手打着和平手势的镜头。

尼克松总统。(通过电视)福特副总统将在这个时候

福特副总统将于此时在本办公室宣誓就任总统。当我回忆起我们在第二个任期开始时对美国寄予的厚望时，我感到非常难过，因为我将不会在这个办公室里......

1. 是什么导致了尼克松总统的辞职？

2. 为什么 "水门事件 "会有这样的名声？

阅读了解哪些行为导致了对尼克松总统的弹劾要求。

和解是理查德-M-尼克松总统设定的第一个目标。当时国家正处于痛苦的分裂状态，城市中的动荡和海外的战争。在其总统任期内，尼克松成功地结束了美国在越南的战斗，并改善了与苏联和中国的关系。但水门事件丑闻给国家带来了新的分裂，最终导致他辞职。他在1968年的当选将他的职业生涯推向了高潮，有两点是不寻常的：一是他早期的成功，二是他在1960年竞选总统和1962年竞选加州州长时被击败后的复出。

尼克松1913年出生于加利福尼亚，在开始从事法律工作之前，他在惠蒂尔学院和杜克大学法学院有出色的成绩。1940年，他与帕特里夏-瑞安结婚；他们有两个女儿，帕特里夏（Tricia）和朱莉。第二次世界大战期间，尼克松在太平洋地区担任海军中尉指挥官。退役后，他被选为加州地区的国会议员。1950年，他赢得了一个参议院席位。两年后，艾森豪威尔将军选择39岁的尼克松作为他的竞选伙伴。作为副总统，尼克松在艾森豪威尔政府中承担了主要职责。1960年，他以鼓掌方式被提名为总统候选人，但以微弱的优势输给了约翰-F-肯尼迪。1968年，他再次赢得党内提名，并击败了副总统休伯特-H-汉弗莱和第三方候选人乔治-C-华莱士。

他在任职期间取得的成就包括收入分享、结束征兵、新的反犯罪法和广泛的环境计划。正如他所承诺的那样，他任命了具有保守理念的法官进入最高法院。1969年，美国宇航员首次登月，这是他第一个任期中最引人注目的事件之一。

在1972年的竞选中，尼克松以有史以来最广泛的优势之一击败了民主党候选人乔治-麦戈文。几个月后，他的政府因所谓的 "水门 "丑闻而陷入困境，该丑闻源于1972年竞选期间位于沃特盖特公寓大楼的民主党全国委员会办公室被闯入。闯入事件被追查到重选总统委员会的官员身上。一些政府官员辞职；一些人后来被判定犯有与掩盖该事件有关的罪行。尼克松否认有任何个人参与，但法院迫使他提供录音，表明他实际上*曾试图转移调查。

试图转移调查方向。总统参与掩盖水门事件的证据很清楚：在入室盗窃案发生后仅几天，尼克松就命令联邦调查局停止对入室盗窃的调查。

由于马里兰州的一些无关的丑闻，副总统斯皮罗-T-阿格纽于1973年辞职了。尼克松提名并经国会批准，众议院少数党领袖杰拉尔德-R-福特担任副总统。司法委员会通过了三项针对总统的弹劾条款。这些条款声称，尼克松妨碍司法，滥用总统权力，并拒绝遵守委员会的证据要求。面对似乎几乎肯定的弹劾，尼克松于1974年8月8日宣布，他将在第二天辞职，以开始 "美国迫切需要的愈合过程"。水门事件危机表明了制衡制度的力量。当总统似乎在滥用权力时，国会和最高法院成功地制衡了他的权力。宪法中规定的权力平衡得到了维护。

甚至在水门事件之前，一些批评者就指责最近的总统通过承担过多的权力创造了一个 "帝国式总统"。在尼克松时期，白宫的工作人员增加到500人，是以往任何一位总统工作人员的两倍以上。水门事件带来了对改革的要求。1974年的《国会预算和扣押法》（Congressional Budget and Impoundment Act of 1974）修订了国会的预算编制方法，并禁止总统扣押国会的拨款。1974年的《联邦竞选改革法》为联邦办公室的候选人提供了税收资金，并对私人竞选捐款进行了限制。国会还加强了1966年的《信息自由法》，使公众有更多机会获得有关政府活动的信息。

86

87

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国语言、历史和文化

-

尼克松卓越的政治生涯的主要阶段是什么？

闯入华盛顿特区的民主党总部，如何导致了震惊全国的参议院调查？

为什么录音带在水门事件中很重要？众议院司法委员会对尼克松提出了哪些指控？

国会用什么法律来应对水门事件？水门事件是如何体现出制衡制度的力量的？

3.11 福德政府

阅读剧本，回答问题。

延伸阅读：船。

福雷斯特和丹中尉在甲板上吃饭。电视上播放着对杰拉尔德-福特总统的暗杀企图。主播：（通过电视）在17天内第二次，福特总统逃脱了可能的暗杀。

今天，福特总统躲过了可能的暗杀，当他走出旧金山的一家酒店时，一位名叫萨拉-简-穆尔的女士向他开枪。

延长河。夜晚。

珍妮和弗勒斯特一起坐在一根木头上，在里珍妮用胳膊搂着弗勒斯特。

福瑞斯特。(画外音)那是我一生中最快乐的时光。烟花在天空中炸开。

内。阿甘的房子。夜晚。

电视上显示的是自由女神像。烟花响起。福尔和珍妮正在观看电视上的国庆节庆祝活动。播音员。(通过电视)而这个国庆节正在见证

国家两百年历史上最大的烟花表演。

百年历史上规模最大的一次... 詹妮：你看完了吗？

福瑞斯特。嗯，嗯。

播音员： (...这里是纽约港。在

壮观的高大船只先前的展示，自由女神像...

自由女神像...

珍妮站起来，亲吻福瑞斯特的脸颊。

珍妮：我去睡觉了。

珍妮关上电视，走到外面。弗勒斯站起来，他放下手中的佩珀博士酒。珍妮向楼梯走去。福瑞斯特：你愿意嫁给我吗？你愿意嫁给我吗？我会是个好丈夫的，珍妮。珍妮：你会的，福瑞斯特。

弗勒斯。但你不愿意嫁给我。

珍妮：你不想嫁给我。

福瑞斯特：是的。你为什么不爱我，珍妮？我不是一个聪明的人。

但我知道什么是爱。

福瑞斯特转身向门外走去。珍妮转身走到楼梯上。福瑞斯特站在外面。

1. 上任一个月后，福特总统发布了一项赦免令，使理查德-尼克松在任职期间可能犯下的任何罪行免于起诉。你认为是这次赦免掀起了一场争论的风暴，激起了对总统的企图吗？

2. 你认为福特总统对尼克松的赦免是对国家有利还是有害？解释一下。

解释一下。

处理经济和政治问题。

当杰拉尔德-R-福特在1974年8月9日宣誓就职时，他宣称："我是在特殊情况下就任总统的....。这是一个困扰我们的历史时刻，也是一个伤害我们心灵的时刻"。这的确是一个史无前例的时刻。他是根据第二十五修正案的条款选出的第一位副总统，在水门事件丑闻发生后，他正在接替有史以来第一位辞职的总统。总统的诚实和善意帮助国家从水门事件中恢复过来。大多数美国人在1976年7月4日庆祝美国建国200周年时对这种积极的情绪表示欢迎。福特总统告诉美国人 "打出旗帜，敲起乐队，照亮天空"，以庆祝二百周年，全国人民欣然遵从。在纽约市，来自许多国家的老式帆船驶过港口。"扬帆行动 "以自由女神像上壮观的烟花表演结束。

福特面临着几乎无法克服的任务。他面临的挑战包括：控制通货膨胀，振兴萧条的经济，解决长期的能源短缺问题，以及努力确保世界和平。总统采取行动，遏制政府干预和支出作为解决美国社会和经济问题的手段的趋势。他认为，从长远来看，这种转变将为所有美国人带来更好的生活。

福特的正直和开放的声誉使他在国会的25年里很受欢迎。从1965年到1973年，他是众议院少数党领袖。1913年，他在内布拉斯加的奥马哈出生，在密歇根州的大急流城长大。他曾在密歇根大学足球队服役，然后去了耶鲁大学，在那里他担任助理教练，同时获得了他的法律学位。在第二次世界大战期间，他获得了海军中校的军衔。战后，他回到大急流城，开始从事法律工作，并进入共和党政界。在他于1948年当选为国会议员之前的几个星期，他与伊丽莎白

1948年，他与伊丽莎白-布鲁默结婚。他们有四个孩子。迈克尔、约翰、史蒂芬和苏珊。

作为总统，福特试图通过对前总统尼克松的全面赦免来平息先前的争议。他提名的副总统人选是纽约州前州长纳尔逊-洛克菲勒，他是第二个通过任命填补这一职位的人。福特逐渐选择了自己的内阁。福特在上任的第一年就确立了自己的政策，尽管遭到民主党国会的强烈反对。他的第一个目标是遏制通货膨胀。为了应对不断上涨的物价，福特开始了一项自愿的控制价格和工资的计划，称为WIN（鞭打通货膨胀）。经济不但没有改善，反而更加糟糕。

经济不但没有改善，反而变得更糟，国家很快进入了自1930年代以来最严重的衰退。当经济衰退成为国家最严重的国内问题时，他说服了国会批准减税。但是，由于仍然担心通货膨胀，福特否决了一些提名军事拨款法案，这些法案将进一步增加已经很严重的预算赤字。在他担任总统的头14个月里，他否决了39项措施。他的否决权通常都能得到维持。

虽然减税有助于经济的适度复苏，但它也引发了新一轮的通货膨胀。经济似乎停滞在经济衰退和通货膨胀交替出现的模式中。

福特继续像他在国会时期那样，将自己视为 "国内事务中的温和派，财政事务中的保守派，以及外交事务中的坚定的国际主义者。" 一个主要目标是通过减少对企业的税收和放松监管机构的控制来帮助企业更自由地运作。"他说："我们......200年前就宣布了我们的独立，我们现在不会因为洗纸机和电脑而失去它。在

在外交事务中，福特积极行动起来，在柬埔寨和南越崩溃后维持美国的权力和威望。防止中东地区发生新的战争仍然是一个主要目标；通过向以色列和埃及提供援助，福特政府帮助说服这两个国家接受临时休战协议。与苏联的缓和关系仍在继续。福特总统和苏联领导人列昂尼德-勃列日涅夫对核武器设定了新的限制。

勃列日涅夫对核武器设定了新的限制。尽管有这些合作的迹象，到1976年，与苏联的关系已经开始冷却。缓和的批评者指责苏联在核协议上作弊，并不断增加其武器库。他们争辩说，苏联在1973年鼓励埃及袭击以色列，并且正在武装第三世界的其他国家。许多人仍然将苏联视为

苏联是一个对手，而不是一个缓和的伙伴。

福特总统在1976年赢得了共和党的总统候选人提名，但在选举中输给了他的民主党对手、乔治亚州前州长吉米-卡特。在就职典礼上，卡特总统开始了他的演讲。"为了我自己和我们的国家，我要感谢我的前任为治愈我们的土地所做的一切"。充满感激的人民表示赞同。

福特总统是如何试图刺激经济的？

这一措施产生了什么效果？

- 你认为福特延续了尼克松的政策吗？

一些美国人基于什么理由批评了1970年代中期的缓和政策？

3.12 卡特总统任期

阅读剧本，回答问题。

前门外。天。

福雷斯特。(画外音)那一天，没有什么特别的原因，我决定

去跑了一圈。

福瑞斯特跑到车道的尽头，然后向右转，跑到公路上。

福瑞斯特。(所以我跑到了路的尽头。

我到了那里，我想也许我应该跑到镇子的尽头。

进。理发店。日子。

三个人边看电视边坐着。福雷斯特跑过镇上的主要街道。

新闻播报员。卡特总统因中暑倒在了安全人员的怀抱中。

福雷斯特。(画外音)而当我到达那里时...

阿拉巴马路外。

牌子上写着 "进入绿波县"。

福雷斯特。(（画外音）...) 我想也许我应该跑到格林鲍尔县。我想既然我跑了这么远，我就跑过大......

福雷斯特跑过一个牌子，上面写着 "密西西比州欢迎你。玉兰州。"

福雷斯特。(...阿拉巴马州。这就是我所做的。

当选为佐治亚州州长。在南方新的年轻州长中，他通过强调生态、政府效率和消除种族障碍吸引了人们的注意。

卡特于1974年12月宣布参加总统竞选，并开始了为期两年的竞选活动，其势头逐渐增强。在民主党大会上，他在第一轮投票中被提名。他选择了明尼苏达州的参议员沃尔特-F-蒙代尔作为他的竞选伙伴。卡特与杰拉尔德-R-福特总统进行了激烈的竞选，与他进行了三次辩论。卡特以297张选举人票胜过福特的241张。

卡特努力工作，以应对通货膨胀和失业等持续的经济困境。在他执政结束时，他可以宣称增加了近800万个工作岗位，并减少了预算赤字（以国民生产总值的百分比衡量）。不幸的是，通货膨胀和利率接近历史最高水平，为减少它们所做的努力造成了短暂的经济衰退。

卡特可以指出在国内事务中的一些成就。他通过制定国家能源政策和取消对国内石油价格的控制以刺激生产来解决能源短缺问题。他通过公务员改革促使政府提高效率，并着手解除对卡车和航空业的管制。他寻求改善环境。他对国家公园系统的扩展包括对阿拉斯加1.03亿英亩土地的保护。为了增加人类和社会服务，他设立了教育部，加强了社会保障体系，并任命了创纪录的妇女、黑人和西班牙裔人担任政府职务。

在外交事务中，卡特树立了自己的风格。他对人权的倡导受到了苏联和其他一些国家的冷遇。在中东，通过1978年的戴维营协议，他帮助埃及和以色列达成了友好关系。他成功地获得了巴拿马运河条约的批准。在前辈的工作基础上，他建立了全面的外交关系。

1. 2.

我清楚地跑过阿拉巴马州。

"卡特总统因热衰竭而倒在安全人员的怀抱中。" 这一事件可能发生在世界的哪个地方？

你对1978年的戴维营峰会了解多少？"

通过阅读，了解卡特总统面临哪些困难的经济和政治问题。

吉米-卡特渴望使政府 "有能力、有同情心"，对美国人民和他们的期望做出反应。他的成就是显著的，但在一个能源成本上升、通货膨胀加剧和持续紧张的时代，他的政府不可能满足这些高期望。卡特很少使用他的全名--小詹姆斯-厄尔-卡特，他于1924年10月1日出生在佐治亚州的平原市。从事花生种植。

谈论政治和对浸礼会信仰的虔诚是他成长过程中的主要内容。1946年从马里兰州安纳波利斯的海军学院毕业后，卡特与罗莎琳-史密斯结婚。卡特夫妇有三个儿子：约翰-威廉（杰克）、詹姆斯-厄尔三世（奇普）、唐纳尔-杰弗里（杰夫）。

杰弗里（Jeff），以及一个女儿艾米-林恩。

在当了七年的海军军官后，卡特回到了平原市。1962年，他进入州政界，八年后他

被选为佐治亚州的州长。在南方新的年轻州长中，他因强调生态、政府效率和消除种族障碍而吸引了人们的注意。

卡特于1974年12月宣布参加总统竞选，并开始了为期两年的竞选活动，其势头逐渐增强。在民主党大会上，他在第一轮投票中被提名。他选择了明尼苏达州的参议员沃尔特-F-蒙代尔作为他的竞选伙伴。卡特与杰拉尔德-R-福特总统进行了激烈的竞选，与他进行了三次辩论。卡特以297张选举人票胜过福特的241张。

卡特努力工作，以应对通货膨胀和失业等持续的经济困境。在他执政结束时，他可以宣称增加了近800万个工作岗位，并减少了预算赤字（以国民生产总值的百分比衡量）。不幸的是，通货膨胀和利率接近历史最高水平，为减少它们所做的努力造成了短暂的经济衰退。

卡特可以指出在国内事务中的一些成就。他通过制定国家能源政策和取消对国内石油价格的控制以刺激生产来解决能源短缺问题。他通过公务员改革促使政府提高效率，并着手解除对卡车和航空业的管制。他寻求改善环境。他对国家公园系统的扩展包括对阿拉斯加1.03亿英亩土地的保护。为了增加人类和社会服务，他设立了教育部，加强了社会保障体系，并任命了创纪录的妇女、黑人和西班牙裔人担任政府职务。

在外交事务中，卡特树立了自己的风格。他对人权的倡导受到了苏联和其他一些国家的冷遇。在中东，通过1978年的戴维营协议，他帮助埃及和以色列达成了友好关系。他成功地获得了巴拿马运河条约的批准。在前任的工作基础上，他与中华人民共和国建立了全面的外交关系。

他与中华人民共和国建立了全面的外交关系，并完成了与苏联的SALT II核限制条约的谈判。

然而，也有严重的挫折。苏联入侵阿富汗导致批准SALT II条约的计划暂停。在美国政府的最后14个月里，美国驻伊朗大使馆工作人员被劫持为人质的事件成为新闻的主角。伊朗的石油出口几乎降至零，由此造成的石油短缺促使石油价格从1978年的每桶13美元上涨到1980年的31美元以上。石油价格的上涨导致了通货膨胀率的急剧上升。到1980年，商品价格每年上涨13.5%。 失业率从1979年的5.8%跃升到1980年的7.1%。伊朗扣留美国人的后果，加上国内持续的通货膨胀，促成了伊朗的经济发展。

加上国内持续的通货膨胀，导致了卡特在1980年的失败。即使如此，他仍继续就人质问题进行艰难的谈判。伊朗最终在卡特离职的同一天释放了52名美国人。

- 在卡特时代，国家面临哪些经济问题？§ 加特总统为解决这些问题做了什么？

- 卡特把什么作为其外交政策的核心？

- 是什么导致了卡特在1980年选举中的失败？

- 革命使阿亚图拉-霍梅尼上台

伊朗的革命使阿亚图拉-霍梅尼上台，伊朗人质危机是对美国在中东地区利益的严重威胁。今天，伊朗和伊拉克这两个国家及其政策对美国有什么影响？

3.13 革命的意义 阅读剧本，回答问题。

电视机显示里根总统和他的工作人员对一辆豪华轿车前的枪声作出反应。

新闻播报员。(几分钟前，下午两点二十五分，当里根总统离开华盛顿希尔顿酒店时......

int. 阿甘之家，戴维。

福雷斯特坐在那里吃着三明治，看着未遂刺杀事件的新闻。

新闻播报员：......五六声枪响是由一个不知名的

潜在的刺客。总统胸部中弹，袭击者立即被半打执法人员制服。由于总统...

1. 你还能想起哪些针对美国总统的歹意袭击事件？

2. 你对里根政府的政策有什么印象？

通过阅读，了解里根总统是如何运用他对自由市场的信念来解决国家的经济问题。

在两届任期结束时，罗纳德-里根满意地看待他的创新计划--"里根革命 "的成就，该计划旨在重振美国人民，减少他们对政府的依赖。他认为自己已经实现了1980年的竞选承诺，即恢复 "美国进步、增长和乐观的伟大、自信的吼声"。里根有一种轻松和幽默的态度。在他执政仅两个月后，他就被一个可能的刺客枪杀。当里根被紧急送往医院时，血流如注，他对医生笑着说："我希望你们都是好的共和党人。" 他的幽默，加上顽强的勇气，是许多美国人喜欢他的品质。

1911年2月6日，罗纳德-威尔逊-里根出生于伊利诺伊州坦皮科的内尔和约翰-里根。他在附近的迪克森上的高中，然后在尤里卡学院工作。在那里，他学习经济学和社会学，参加了足球队，并在学校的戏剧中表演。

在那里，他学习经济学和社会学，参加了足球队，并在学校的戏剧中演出。毕业后，他成为电台体育播音员。1937年的一次银幕测试为他在好莱坞赢得了机会。在接下来的20年里，他出演了5部电影。从他与女演员简-怀曼的第一次婚姻中，他有了孩子，莫琳和迈克尔。1952年，他与同为演员的南希-达

她也是一位女演员，他们有两个孩子，帕特里夏-A和罗纳德-普雷斯科特。

作为电影演员协会的主席，里根卷入了关于电影业中的共产主义问题的争论；他的政治观点从自由主义转向保守主义，他作为电视节目主持人在全国巡演，成为保守主义的代言人。1966年，他以100万票的优势当选为加州州长；1970年，他再次当选。

1980年，罗纳德-里根赢得了共和党总统提名，并选择了前德克萨斯州议员*和联合国大使乔治-布什作为他的竞选伙伴。被通货膨胀和美国人在伊朗被禁闭一年所困扰的选民们将共和党的票选上台。里根赢得了48张

里根赢得了48张选举人票，吉米-卡特总统赢得了49张。

1981年1月20日，里根上任。里根巧妙地与国会打交道，获得了刺激经济增长、抑制通货膨胀、增加就业和加强国防的立法。他开始了削减税收和政府开支的路线，当加强国防力量导致大量赤字时，他拒绝偏离这一路线。里根还希望通过减少政府对商业和工业的限制，使政府 "从人民的背后离开"。这个过程被称为放松管制，使银行、卡车运输和航空公司摆脱了政府的监管。

航空公司摆脱了政府的监管。此外，总统签署了一项行政命令，废除了对大多数国内原油的价格控制。

起初，经济下滑，造成经济衰退和10%的失业率。但随后高通胀率开始

跌。由于这么多人失业，消费者减少了消费，企业也降低了价格。通货膨胀也减少了，因为石油供应增加，使汽油和石油产品的价格下降。到1983年，经济已经开始改善。就业率增加，平均家庭收入四年来首次上升。

到1984年，国家自信心的恢复帮助里根和布什以前所未有的选举人票数赢得了第二个任期。他们的胜利使民主党的挑战者沃尔特-F-蒙代尔和杰拉尔丁-费拉罗望而却步。1986年，里根获得了对所得税法的全面修订，取消了许多扣除项目，并豁免了数百万低收入者。在他执政结束时，美国正享受着有记录以来最长的和平时期的繁荣，没有衰退或萧条。

在外交政策方面，里根寻求 "通过实力实现和平"，将世界各地的冲突视为美国与 "邪恶帝国"（他曾称苏联）之间全球斗争的一部分。在他的两个任期内，他将国防开支增加了35%。1983年，里根提议在外太空开发一个武器系统，以保护国家免受敌人导弹的袭击。这一战略防御计划（SDI）得到了 "星球大战 "的绰号。由于激烈的军备竞赛破坏了苏联的经济，缓解世界紧张局势的时机已经成熟，因此里根寻求改善与苏联的关系。在1987年与苏联领导人戈尔巴乔夫的戏剧性会晤中，他谈判达成了一项消除中程核力量的条约。

中程核力量（INF）。

1986年底，一家黎巴嫩报纸报道，美国政府秘密向伊朗出售武器，以帮助解救被关押在那里的美国人质。这一报道似乎令人难以置信，因为美国已经禁止向伊朗运送武器。但几天后，美国政府承认已经出售了武器，而且出售的收益被转给了反动派。

转移给了尼加拉瓜的反叛分子，他们与左派的桑地诺分子作战。这发生在美国对反政府武装的军事援助被法律禁止的时候。批评者将这一事件与水门事件相提并论，但没有证据表明里根总统与伊朗-康特拉丑闻有直接联系。

里根向国际恐怖主义宣战，在有证据表明利比亚参与了在西柏林夜总会对美国士兵的袭击后，派美国轰炸机对利比亚进行轰炸。通过命令海军在波斯湾进行护航，他在两伊战争期间保持了石油的自由流通。根据里根理论，他对中美洲、亚洲和非洲的反共产主义叛乱给予了支持。总的来说，里根时期恢复了繁荣，通过实力实现和平的目标似乎已经在望。

- 里根总统在上任之初认为主要的经济问题是什么？他是如何处理这些问题的？

里根总统对苏联的政策是什么？两国之间的关系是如何变化的？

- 为什么里根对尼加拉瓜的政策会引起争议？

- 描述一下里根总统对中东、拉丁美洲和非洲的外交政策。

描述里根总统对中东、拉美和非洲的外交政策。

3.14 嬉皮士运动及其后果

阅读剧本，回答问题。

珍妮：我有很多事情要告诉你，你不会相信已经发生了什么......

福雷斯特。(画外音)我们整晚都在走动，珍妮和我，只是聊天。

延伸：66号公路。闪回。一天。

珍妮站在雨中，搭着便车。一辆汽车停在路边来接她。珍妮和其他女孩上了车。

福雷斯特。(她告诉我她所做的所有旅行

做过的事。

外景：新墨西哥州的公社。夜晚。

一个嬉皮士给了珍妮一个糖块的酸，他们坐在熊熊的火堆前。

福雷斯特。(画外音)她发现了如何拓展她的思想和学习如何和谐相处的方法

她的思想，并学习如何和谐地生活......

外景：好莱坞。星光大道。戴。

人行道上有一颗写着 "珍妮-哈洛 "的星星。珍妮和另外两个女孩在人行道上唱歌，向路人收取零钱。珍妮弹着吉他。

福瑞斯特。(...一定是在西部的某个地方。

因为她一路走到了加州。

珍妮：（唱）"对你的兄弟微笑，大家聚在一起。

试着去爱另一个人吧。"

一个年轻的嬉皮士从他那辆褪色的大众汽车上看向这些女孩。

年轻的嬉皮士：嘿，有人想去旧金山吗？珍妮：我去。

闯入。迪斯科舞厅。-

迪斯科舞厅灯光闪烁，人们跳舞。一个男人邀请一个女孩跳舞。

吉特。好的。

珍妮和其他一些人坐在一张桌子旁。她正在吸食可卡因。

福雷斯特。(现在，我已经很久没有听到珍妮的消息了。

很长时间了。但是......。

分机：Bayou La Batre。D&V。

福瑞斯特站在船舵上，船在水面上滑行。

福雷斯特。(画外音)但我经常想到她。我希望无论她在做什么都能让她开心。

室内。公寓。夜晚。

一张桌子上摆放着吸毒工具和一大堆现金。一个男人把一个注射器丢在桌子上。他伸手摸了摸珍妮。她脸色苍白，眼睛下面有黑藤。?

室内。卫生间。

珍妮在镜子上涂抹了一些可卡因的线条。她看着镜子里的自己。

阳台外景。

珍妮走到高楼阳台上。她踩着一张桌子，站在阳台的边缘。一条繁忙的街道位于许多层楼以下。珍妮向下看下面的十字路口*，她滑过边缘，恢复平衡，转身回头看下面的十字路口，并开始从边缘下来。珍妮抓住窗台，小心翼翼地爬了下来。她在一张椅子上坐下来。珍妮一边哭一边来回摇晃。她抬头望着天空。

外景：公园。白天。

福瑞斯特和珍妮坐在长椅上。小福瑞斯特在他们身后摇摆。

珍妮。福瑞斯特，我生病了。

福瑞斯特。什么，你是因为感冒而咳嗽吗？

珍妮：我有某种病毒。医生们不知道，他们

他们不知道那是什么。而且他们也没有任何办法

对它做什么。

福瑞斯特。你可以跟我回家。珍妮，你和小

福瑞斯特可以到我在格林鲍的房子里住。我可以

照顾你，如果你生病了。珍妮：你愿意嫁给我吗，弗勒斯？福瑞斯特。好的。

通过阅读了解为什么美国人在60年代建立了新的亚文化，以及毒品和艾滋病如何成为政治问题。

随着新技术的发展，反共产主义的战争，以及反对种族不公的内部战争，美国的变革肯定会发生。随着婴儿潮的孩子们成为年轻的成年人，他们发现对周围世界的不满要多得多。这导致了一种被称为 "嬉皮士 "的亚文化，随着时间的推移，这种亚文化融合成了一个自己的大众社会。这些人对越南战争感到不满，对目前的政府及其相关的权威持怀疑态度，并寻找一个地方，将自己从社会的现行规范中解放出来，带来了他们今天所知道的风格。他们找到的自由是在毒品的帮助下实现的。大麻从黑人和西班牙裔、有爵士乐思想的飞地发展到白人中产阶级年轻人的外围区域。这种新的毒品使人能够打开他们的思想，接受新的理解和哲学。但是，不仅仅是大麻打开了年轻人的思想；一种被称为LSD的新毒品也出现了。

根据谁的说法，LSD是探索精神 "内在空间 "的智力工具，是寻求刺激者的新刺激来源--或者是药片社会中最新的、最可怕的精神药物清单上的瘾品。由于政治家和执法官员将这种药物视为对社会的危险，许多专业化学家建立了地下实验室，制造出强效和纯正的LSD，压低价格，发放大量免费样品，并自诩为服务于新时代的奇迹的分配者。不仅仅是美国的年轻人在使用这些药物。1967年的一项统计指出，在越南，因吸食大麻而被捕的美国军队比任何其他主要罪行都要多。令人惊讶的统计数字不是吸食大麻的士兵数量；而是美国派去打一场无人理解的战争的士兵数量。由于害怕被派往越南，许多潜在的被征召者都在寻找机会。

100

101

1. 2.

哪些因素促成了嬉皮士运动的出现？

滥用毒品以何种方式危害人类健康？

通过阅读，了解美国人为什么在20世纪60年代建立了一种新的亚文化，以及毒品和艾滋病是如何成为政治问题的。

随着新技术的发展，反共产主义的战争，以及反对种族不公正的内部战争，美国的变革肯定会发生。随着婴儿潮的孩子们成为年轻的成年人，他们发现对周围世界的不满要多得多。这导致了一种被称为 "嬉皮士 "的亚文化，随着时间的推移，这种亚文化融合成了一个自己的大众社会。这些人对越南战争感到不满，对目前的政府及其相关的权威持怀疑态度，并寻找一个地方，将自己从社会的现行规范中解放出来，带来了他们今天所知道的风格。他们找到的自由是在毒品的帮助下实现的。大麻从黑人和西班牙裔、有爵士乐思想的飞地发展到白人中产阶级年轻人的外围区域。这种新的毒品使人能够打开他们的思想，接受新的理解和哲学。但是，不仅仅是大麻打开了年轻人的思想；一种被称为LSD的新毒品也出现了。

根据谁的说法，LSD是探索精神 "内在空间 "的智力工具，是寻求刺激者的新刺激来源--或者是药片社会中最新的、最可怕的精神药物清单上的瘾品。由于政治家和执法官员将这种药物视为对社会的危险，许多专业化学家建立了地下实验室，制造出强效和纯正的LSD，压低价格，发放大量免费样品，并自诩为服务于新时代的奇迹的分配者。不仅仅是美国的年轻人在使用这些药物。1967年的一项统计指出，在越南，因吸食大麻而被捕的美国军队比任何其他主要罪行都要多。令人惊讶的统计数字不是吸食大麻的士兵数量；而是美国派去打一场无人理解的战争的士兵数量。由于担心被派往越南，许多潜在的被征召者寻找

寻找一个可以逃跑的地方。有些人去了墨西哥，有些人去了欧洲，有些人去了加纳达，有些人只是烧掉了他们的征兵卡以抵制征兵。对于那些没有逃离的人来说，生活中充满了来自政府的骚扰。

流行音乐和文学有助于展示这种压迫的信息。吉米-亨德里克斯（Jimi Hendrix）发表了一首题为 "如果6是9 "的歌曲，描述了他的压迫。"白领的保守派在街上走来走去/用他们的塑料手指指着我/他们希望我的同类很快就会摔死......去吧，商人先生，你不能穿得像我。" 在69年的伍德斯托克音乐节上，"乡村乔 "和 "鱼 "乐队唱出了既亲切又激烈的歌词："我们为何而战？/ 别问我，我不在乎/下一站是越南......Whoopee我们都会死。" 新文化将自己与美国原住民相提并论。

美国人和他们不容置疑的压迫，神圣的药物，以及与美国的真正联系。他们形成的风格与这一理念不谋而合：毒品、头发、珠子、轻松的性生活，所有这些开始可能是青少年差异或偏差的象征，很快就变成了文化异议的标志。男孩留着长而不整齐的头发、马尾辫、胡须、小胡子和鬓角；女孩没有卷发器，头发蓬松，没有化妆品和胸罩。胡子可以被理解为一种跃升为男人的尝试。衣服是一种骚乱的服装......印度的珠子，印度人的头巾，牛仔式的靴子和皮鞋，老奶奶的眼镜，长裙，工人阶级的牛仔裤和法兰绒。有

有一辆旅游巴士在旧金山的海特-阿什伯里地区行驶，叫做 "灰色线路"。旅游团的宣传手册上有这样一句话。"美国大陆范围内唯一的外国旅游"。城市里的重要人物不喜欢在他们的城市里生长出一个大型的嬉皮士社区，但嬉皮士们继续追求他们的 "做爱不打仗 "和 "自由恋爱 "的态度。今天，美国仍有大量的嬉皮士人口。

到1986年，随着被称为快克的高活性可卡因形式的出现，毒品危机进一步恶化。青少年吸毒和与毒品有关的犯罪激增。

与毒品有关的犯罪飙升。近年来，被称为 "获得性免疫缺陷综合症 "或 "艾滋病 "的疾病的传播已成为另一个严重问题。艾滋病是由一种病毒引起的，它使身体抵抗感染的能力丧失。研究表明，一个人可以通过与受感染的伙伴的性接触或在吸毒时分享受污染的针头而感染艾滋病。但到目前为止，还没有治愈艾滋病的方法，也没有免疫艾滋病的手段。随着对艾滋病的控制和预防研究的继续，这种疾病被当作一个严重的公共卫生问题和一个重要的政治问题来对待。

102

103

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国语言、历史和文化

- -

嬉皮士运动是如何影响美国社会的？哪些人群有感染艾滋病的风险？

需要做些什么来预防艾滋病和教育有风险的年轻人？

3.15 科学和技术的进步

阅读剧本并回答问题。

福瑞斯特。现在，因为我曾经是一个足球明星，一个战争英雄，一个全国性的名人，一个捕虾船的船长，一个大学毕业生，阿拉巴马州格林博市的父老乡亲们决定聚在一起，给我一个好工作。

足球场外。达夫。

福瑞斯特骑着一台草坪拖拉机在移动足球场的草坪。

福雷斯特。(画外音）所以，我没有再去为丹中尉工作。

外景：阿甘之家的邮箱。

福瑞斯特拿出一封信并打开。

福瑞斯特。(虽然他确实照顾了我的巴布-甘的钱。他让我在某个水果公司投资

公司。然后我收到他的一封信，说不用再担心钱的问题了。

1. 在20世纪80年代，投资什么样的 "水果公司 "可以带来丰厚的利润？

2. 为什么计算机改变了美国人的日常生活？

通过阅读，了解计算机技术的进步是如何增加普通人可获得的信息量的。

在过去，美国家庭认为他们得到第一部电话、第一辆汽车或第一台电视的日子是重要的里程碑。但今天人们更可能会问："还记得我们什么时候有了第一台电脑吗？" 20世纪80年代，计算机开始在家庭、学校和办公室的桌子上出现。1988年，苹果电脑的发明人之一斯蒂芬-乔布斯提出了一种新的电脑，它的内存中已经包含了莎士比亚的作品和一本大词典。

计算机在办公室和工厂里产生了一场革命! 在一些现代工厂中，人类只需要为计算机控制的机器人提供服务，这些机器人完成所有的流水线工作。他们还执行其他任务，如保存记录、工资核算和开票。没有计算机技术，美国不可能将卫星或人送入太空。然而，同样的技术使现代武器比以往任何时候都更加精确和具有破坏力。

一个被称为调制解调器的设备可以通过电话线将一台计算机连接到任何类似设备的计算机。有了调制解调器，在家的人可以将他们的电脑连接到企业、学校和图书馆。许多企业的员工从来不到办公室来--他们所有的工作都是在家里用电脑完成的，并通过调制解调器传输。消费者可以通过电脑购物。电子邮件已经通过计算机传递信件。一些残障人士正在使用电脑上大学。视频

通过电影《阿甘正传》关注美国的语言、历史和文化 使用计算机技术的游戏正在改变许多美国人利用休闲时间的方式。

美国人利用他们的休闲时间。

无论我们是否意识到，今天我们在个人电脑上使用的大多数东西都与微软有直接关系，微软是比尔-盖茨创立的一家计算机公司。威廉-亨利-盖茨三世于1955年出生在华盛顿州的西雅图。比尔被他的父亲称为特雷，因为特雷意味着三。特雷一直很聪明，即使是他能接触到的最早的计算机，他也一直喜欢。1975年12月的一天，比尔的朋友保罗-艾伦给他看了《大众电子》杂志，封面上有一个Altair 8800，这是第一个迷你计算机套件。保罗说服比尔和他一起创办公司，并从哈佛大学退学。比尔有点不情愿地同意了。

威廉-盖茨和保罗-艾伦一起创办了一家公司，当时特雷19岁，在1976年。他们最终决定将其称为微软。

公司。于是我就收到了他的一封信，说不用再担心钱的问题了。

1. 在20世纪80年代，投资什么样的 "水果公司 "可以带来丰厚的利润？

2. 为什么计算机改变了美国人的日常生活？

通过阅读，了解计算机技术的进步是如何增加普通人可获得的信息量的。

在过去，美国家庭认为他们得到第一部电话、第一辆汽车或第一台电视的日子是重要的里程碑。但今天人们更可能会问："还记得我们什么时候有了第一台电脑吗？" 20世纪80年代，计算机开始在家庭、学校和办公室的桌子上出现。1988年，苹果电脑的发明人之一斯蒂芬-乔布斯提出了一种新的电脑，它的内存中已经包含了莎士比亚的作品和一本大词典。

计算机在办公室和工厂里产生了一场革命! 在一些现代工厂中，人类只需要为计算机控制的机器人提供服务，这些机器人完成所有的流水线工作。他们还执行其他任务，如保存记录、工资核算和开票。没有计算机技术，美国不可能将卫星或人送入太空。然而，同样的技术使现代武器比以往任何时候都更加精确和具有破坏力。

一个被称为调制解调器的设备可以通过电话线将一台计算机连接到任何类似设备的计算机。有了调制解调器，在家的人可以将他们的电脑连接到企业、学校和图书馆。许多企业的员工从来不到办公室来--他们所有的工作都是在家里用电脑完成的，并通过调制解调器传输。消费者可以通过电脑购物。电子邮件已经通过计算机传递信件。一些残障人士正在使用电脑上大学。视频

使用计算机技术的视频游戏正在改变许多美国人利用休闲时间的方式。

美国人利用他们的休闲时间。

无论我们是否意识到，今天我们在个人电脑上使用的大多数东西都与微软有直接关系，微软是比尔-盖茨创立的一家计算机公司。威廉-亨利-盖茨三世于1955年出生在华盛顿州的西雅图。比尔被他的父亲称为特雷，因为特雷意味着三。特雷一直很聪明，即使是他能接触到的最早的计算机，他也一直喜欢。1975年12月的一天，比尔的朋友保罗-艾伦给他看了《大众电子》杂志，封面上有一个Altair 8800，这是第一个迷你计算机套件。保罗说服比尔和他一起创办公司，并从哈佛大学退学。比尔有点不情愿地同意了。

威廉-盖茨和保罗-艾伦一起创办了一家公司，当时特雷19岁，在1976年。他们最终决定将其称为微软。微软的目标是在每栋楼的每张桌子上放一台电脑。为了实现这一目标，微软旨在实现兼容性。然而，在微软成立后，他们为日本人制作了外国软件。他们已经做了很长时间，但后来与IBM和英特尔合作，制造了第一台个人电脑。他们为其制作了一个操作系统，即微软DOS，该系统价格便宜，功能齐全，而且可以使用。这一策略使MS-DOS成为IBM个人电脑使用最频繁的操作系统。微软制作了第一个图形化的操作系统，使用鼠标和键盘，并称之为Windows。此后，微软增加了其他软件，如Microsoft Word，这是一个文字处理器，以及MS

Excel，这是一个电子表格程序。随着微软的发展，它的产品范围扩大了，包括一些硬件和各种软件。他们生产游戏、互联网程序，有在线服务，有五种以上的Windows和DOS版本，还有更多。

微软的Windows成熟了，为其开发的软件也成熟了。1995年，一个新版本的Windows出现了，叫做Windows 95。

这是一个重大的进步。微软现在的价值约为90亿美元，盖茨的财富最近已达到200亿大关，这使他成为世界上最富有的人之一。

你认为计算机对美国人生活的改变比电话和汽车这样的技术进步更大吗？

计算机如何彻底改变了许多人的工作和休闲时间？