Hello, my name is Jeremy...

My first school was Light Oaks Primary in Salford, near Manchester in the North of England and I loved it. I remember 1977 with fond memories. I was 5 years old and the highlight of each week was receiving the Mr. Chatterbox badge from my teacher Mrs. Dodd. I wore my badge with pride and saw it as a badge of honour.

Mrs. Dodd did not.

Apparently, I was pretty disruptive as a child because I wouldn’t stop talking during class. I was supposed to wear the badge as a sign of my punishment, even though my only misdemeanour was asking “Why?” more than the average child. I just wanted to know the background to every story that Mrs. Dodd read to us in “story corner” each day. Forty three years later and not much has changed...

I’m still disruptive.

I still want to know why stories work.

The only difference is that today I get rewarded for talking too much. (I don’t get a badge but my pocket money is better).

When I was growing up my friends took computers to pieces to see how they worked. I was always fascinated with PC’s from the moment I received a Commodore VIC 20 for Christmas in 1981. I enjoyed writing games for my computer with a copy of PC World and Bill Gates’ BASIC programming language, but unlike my friends I wasn’t as interested in studying it’s circuits. While my friends were dreaming about processors, gates and memory expansion packs for their ZX Spectrum’s and BBC Model B’s, I was writing stories about snakes! I remember being particularly proud of a series of adventures about an Emerald Boa Constrictor called Emma. At the weekends my friends would go to computer clubs and steal the newest games from our local WH Smith, but I was guilty of a different crime. I spent my weekends sneaking into my grandad’s writing seminars, where his publishing company was teaching aspiring authors how to write short stories and get published.

In the 1980’s I worked at my dad’s printing company to earn some extra cash during the school holidays. This was where I discovered the joys of SRA2-sized paper. Much larger than anything I’d ever been allowed to draw on in school, these industrial sized sheets of paper for the printing presses were over 2 feet long! (640 x 450 mm). I loved having huge sheets of paper to draw on because they allowed my imagination run wild and not be contained within the limitations of an A4 sheet or a small notebook.

Today, all of those world’s have collided. I work for the largest computing company in the world and I spend my days trying to understand how stories work by taking them to pieces. The stories I work on may have more to do with AI, quantum computing or the climate crisis than they have to do with snakes, but my obsession with story hasn’t faded. I don’t need to sneak into the back of lectures with famous authors anymore, but I haven't stopped trying to figure out why some stories work and some don’t. And when a famous astronaut taught me the concept of accelerated learning by putting all my thoughts onto one big sheet of paper, I knew that one pagers were always destined to be my thing.

This book is a short collection of my one pagers, based on a few of the stories that I’ve enjoyed taking to pieces and some of the things I’ve learned from deconstructing them.

So here we are. Each of these one pagers were done in one sitting. In one draft. With no edits. In about 4 hours. Usually with very little planning. And often with my 4 year old twins Petra and Mathilda helping me to colour them in. Many of them are not neat, mostly because I never intended to publish them, so please just take them at face value. I always think it’s fun too look through other people’s notebooks, so maybe you’ll enjoy flicking through mine. I hope you enjoy looking through them as much as I have enjoyed creating them. Maybe they’ll encouraging you to create your own one pagers, but even more, I hope that they inspire you to become more obsessed with stories and how they work.

Because after all, I believe that we really can change the world just by sharing our stories...

An astronaut taught me how to do one pagers...

If you’re anything like me, you spend most of your time focusing on the things that you’re good at and enjoy doing, and less time on the things that you’re not so excited about. If you’re an astronaut about to embark on a mission to the International Space Station though, you don’t have that luxury. Commander Chris Hadfield is the best test pilot that NASA has ever had on the astronaut training programme. He’s a test pilot for over 70 different types of aircraft and has been the voice of mission control for 25 space shuttle missions. He was Chief of International Space Station Operations from 2006-2008 after spending 146 days in space where he completed 2,336 orbits of the earth. But being good at flying fast planes won’t get you very far on the space station if somebody loses a finger. Or if you need to reboot (and recode) a computer. Or do a space walk to fix a problem with a tool you haven’t used before. Or if you need to communicate with the Russian prime minister. In Russian. These are all things you’ve never done before which will push you far outside of your comfort zone.

Question: How do you learn to do all these things (and more) in less than six months? Answer: One pagers.

One pagers helped Commander Hadfield learn many new skills in an accelerated time period, by focusing only on the things that mattered most to him in that critical moment. By only concerning himself with the direct “interface” he would be faced with, he created one pagers as learning devices that would trigger his mind to only remember the things that he needed to know about. From the moment I saw his one pagers, I knew that they could also help me in my mission critical environments. I may not need to solve a problem “in one breath” but I am often under pressure to deliver messages to an executive audience where millions of dollars or thousands of jobs could be impacted.

What you will find in this book is a snapshot of the one pagers I’ve created. Some were created for my work at IBM, others simply to learn new skills or understand what made a particular speech so great. Many of them are not pretty. Some of them are almost illegible! But they have all made a huge difference to me and helped me in my personal and professional life. I hope that in some small way they help to inspire you as well

Tell stories that matter.

I don’t think we have enough fun at work. I always had lots of fun at school. Maybe that’s why I still enjoy learning new things so much. But as you progress through your professional career, the projects become bigger, the executives become more senior and the stakes get higher. Somewhere along the way things become less fun.

I never really wanted to grow up. I wanted all the perks of being an adult (money to spend on anything I liked and a fridge full of whatever I wanted were my top two priorities), but I didn’t want to become one of those serious people who stopped having fun.

Maybe that’s one reason why I do one pagers and why I enjoy them so much? I love the challenge of sitting down in front of a blank sheet of paper when it’s just staring back at me saying, “OK, let’s see what you’ve got.” I love not knowing where I’m going to end up. I love the idea of creating something original that the world hasn’t seen before. But most of all, I think I love the childlike peace and joy of drawing and colouring in while I learn. No matter how amazing the Apple pencil may be, digital will never replace the organic feeling of paper and pencils. They’re even made from trees. It doesn’t get more zen than that!

Here’s to building business, changing the world and having more fun...

8 Daily Habits for Artists

~1~

Create Something Every Day

It doesn’t matter how small it is. One picture. One quote. One sentence. Just get in the habit of finding the time and head space to bring something new into the world every day.

~2~

Sit Alone; Sit Quietly

Without any technology. Or at least with all your notifications turned off. Get your favourite drink. Alcohol is allowed but if you’re going to write drunk, follow the advice of Ernest Hemingway and edit sober.

~3~

Never Stop Learning

Learn something new without any apparent practical benefit. I’ve written one pagers about poetry and discovered that some of the best “stories” have no structure whatsoever. I love ballet. I recently studied the psychology of these “artists and athletes” in the hope of understanding how they turn their presentations into performances. What I actually discovered was a greater understanding of how ballet dancers tell stories without words.

~4~

Encourage Other Artists

Being an artist can be lonely. It also takes a little arrogance to invest time in yourself and believe that your creativity might make a difference. Sometimes you need to stare at clouds. Not everyone understands this, so surround yourself with a few good people who do.

~5~

Teach to Make Change

Apart from being incredibly rewarding, teaching is the best way to understand something properly (because it forces you to be able to explain it simply). Teaching also pushes your boundaries by creating spaces where people can challenge and inspire you.

~6~

Ship Something You Created

Sometimes 80% good is good enough. Create something. Release it into the wild. See if it survives. Yes, it’s uncomfortable. Yes, you’ll feel vulnerable and exposed. Artists like their stuff to be perfect. But commercial artists can’t afford to waste time and effort working on that additional 20%. Especially if the market doesn’t respond well by the time you finally release it. “Real artists ship”.

~7~

Ask For Feedback

Ignore the crowd. Listen to the people whose work you love, admire and respect. Take their feedback on board and try not to be too precious about taking their advice. It’s just their opinion. But artists are like athletes in many ways. We need great coaches around us to push us harder and make us that 1% better.

~8~

Have Fun

Building businesses and changing the world is hard work, so if it’s not fun it’s probably not sustainable. This doesn’t mean everything needs to be fun, but I look up to artists like Tom Ford who say, “If it’s not fun I don’t want to do it”. People like Tom have found what works for them and an audience who like what they create, so they ruthlessly stick to it. Creating a cheaper perfume might make sense in the short term, but it also opens up a whole new market that someone like Tom wouldn’t find fun. And that will affect his other (art)work too. Not to mention the value of his brand.

Be proud of all the things you DON’T do.

My story...

I am conscious of oversharing and I wasn’t going to include this bit of personal background in my collection of one pagers, but in retrospect it might provide a little context about what drives my obsession, and why I started to create one pagers in the first place. So here goes...

Imposter syndrome is a funny thing. I’ve had it for most of my professional life and it’s pretty hard to shake it off. I graduated from college with pretty good grades and was accepted to City University in London to study investment banking. It sounded like the sensible thing to do, especially as I fancied myself as the next Gordon Gekko. But after a several debates with myself and my parents about whether or not greed was good, I decided to take the road less travelled instead. I chose to take control of my own destiny and pursue the exciting life of an entrepreneur, so I set off on a crusade determined to become the next Richard Branson or Anita Roddick. For the next few years I wrote and re-wrote my business plan. I read the Financial times every day! I had a photo of a Porsche 911 Carrera with a “Jeremy” licence plate above my desk and surrounded myself with books from great leaders such as Zig Ziglar, Tony Robbins, Tom Peters, Jim Collins and John Maxwell. I think I even owned a pair of Gekko-style red braces at one point! In search of my millions I first attempted to buy the family printing business. Then I set up a kids golf company. A skateboard clothing company. A food packaging design agency. And a branding consultancy. I was proud of all of them.

Unfortunately this is not an inspirational tale of my personal success. I did not flirt with failure only to rise from the flames and become an award-winning entrepreneur. I did not appear on Dragon’s Den. I was not featured in Forbes, Fortune or the Wall Street Journal. I failed. Badly. And publicly. I lost my house. Marriage. Many of my “friends”. The design agency I had poured my life into. All my investments. My beloved John Cooper Works Mini was repossessed. I’m pretty sure I even lost my mind on more than one occasion... having only £10 to my name and being forced to decide between putting petrol in my car to driving to a pitch, or buying bread and milk so that I could live on tea and toast for the rest of the week is an experience I don’t fancy revisiting.

I had to complete some paper work for an internal move not too long ago and the form I needed to fill in asked me to use the additional lines to complete details of my second degree and which school I got my MBA from. I didn’t need those extra lines. I didn’t even need the line that came before it. No, choosing to bypass higher education in favour of the glamourous life of an entrepreneur was not my best decision. But here’s the thing...my decision to not extend my education for four years after college sparked a fire that has not gone out since I graduated and it doesn’t show signs of stopping anytime soon. I have an unquenchable desire to keep learning and a hunger to study from the past in order to create a better future. Maybe I’m just motivated to catch up with the executives who are far more academically qualified than me?

Imposter syndrome... It’s a funny thing.

It’s that weird feeling that you don’t quite fit in. But it’s also the fuel that creates the energy you need to survive. It’s what pushes you to try harder. Instead of worrying about the few things I didn’t study for the investment banking degree I never took, I have tried to study EVERYTHING! In his book Outliers, Malcolm Gladwell teased me with the idea that 10,000 hours of focused learning could propel me to the top 1% of my chosen field. I believed him and embraced his concept whole heartedly. In some ways, that book rescued me (or it at least rescued my brain with the promise of success at the end of a long dark tunnel). Gladwell’s book was released in 2008, the year my design agency collapsed, as well as a few other companies such as Lehman Brothers. It was a rough year. I now needed a new mountain to climb. My back-of-the-napkin maths estimated that if I was going to take a different route to scale to new heights, then 10,000 hours would be about 7 years if I spent up to 4 hours a day learning new things. In that moment I decided to dedicate my life to storytelling and to helping other people get better at telling their stories. Fast forward 7 years and we’re in 2015. I’ve learned to speed read. I’ve been an early investor in Masterclass.com and I’ve devoured every business strategy, communication, marketing and motivational book that I could get my hands on. I’ve worked at Facebook. I created one of the first social media teams in Europe for £1 billion telco retailer. That led me to the software company Adobe, where I helped to develop their go-to-market strategy for a new marketing cloud. Adobe opened the doors to Salesforce who were in the middle of buying ExactTarget for $2.5Bn to compete with Adobe. I was recruited to help them tell their story to CMOs and investors. And then came 2016. That was the year I was hired by the biggest tech company of them all, to tell stories about AI, blockchain, cloud and quantum computing.

Today, I’m a communications designer for a 110-year old start-up called IBM. I draw stories, write speeches and help executives to communicate better. It’s a great job title because I invented it. IBM has never had a ”communications designer” before so I’m rather fond of it. Those two little words that speak volumes. Not just about what I do, but about where I’ve come from. I don’t think I’m a failure anymore. I don’t have imposter syndrome. And I’m quite proud of the fact that I’ve fought my way to the top without a degree! So what was it that made all the difference? Two things. One, I’ve never stopped learning. Two, I write every day (even when I don’t feel like it).

When I first started to scribble my thoughts down onto large sheets of paper who knew that they would rescue me and direct me towards pastures new? When I was diagnosed with ADHD one pagers helped me to make sense of my thoughts and process them better. And who knew that not only would my one pagers fill the void created by incomplete education, but they would help me to inspire entrepreneurs, business leaders and civil servants to become more successful?

This book is a short collection of the things I’ve scribbled over the last few years, but they’re really rooted in what’s happened to me over the previous thirty. So please, feel free to view my notes and one pagers with idle curiosity, or the kind of pleasant voyeurism that you get when browsing through someone else’s journal. But don’t for a second think that these are just words on a page or pictures simply coloured in to pass the time and share on social media. To me, these are the words and ideas that helped to change my world. Not the world. Just my world. And who knows? Perhaps they’ll provide a little dose of inspiration or that kick up the ass to encourage you to change your world too...

“You can have everything you want in life, if you just help enough other people get what they want.”

Zig Ziglar

Thank you!

Good artists copy, great artists steal. But they steal gracefully. And with attribution. This collection of one pagers was inspired by the speeches, stories, ideas and insights that I’ve collected from some wonderful people who I’ve met along the way. This is not an exhaustive list of friends and colleagues who have inspired me (you know who you are and I love you), this is a list of people whose content has been gracefully stolen for some of my one pagers. I encourage you to buy their books and devour out EVERYTHING that they’ve published!

John Maxwell Nancy Duarte Simon Sinek Carmine Gallo Austin Kleon Chris Anderson Jay Heinrichs Louis J. Prosperi Michael Margolis Tim Grover

John Elkington Blake Snyder Caroline Goyder Nick Morgan Sam Leith

David J.P. Phillips Jonathan Gottschall Jon Favreau

Peggy Noonan Philip Collins Yvette Cooper Donald Miller

Bob Goff

Will Storr

Thomas L. Friedman Kate Raworth

Erica Chenoweth Gary Keller Katharine Hayhoe Seth Godin

Biz Stone

Garry Kasparov Martin Brooks

Rob Bell

Ken Segall John-Paul Flintoff Lisa Cron

Neil DeGrasse Tyson

My mentor who teaches me how to be a better leader. Today Matters will change your life.

My favourite person in the industry. Helped me to understand the shape of a purpose-driven story.

If I had hero's Simon would be one of them. The person I look to most often for inspiration and ideas.

I love everything he’s ever written. From Talk Like TED to Five Stars.

“The writer who draws”. Taught me to think with my pen.

Forever grateful for what he’s built at TED.

Taught me ab out the power of persuasion

His Disney books about Imagineering are superb.

Story 10X should be on everyone’s bookshelf.

Michael Jordan’s personal trainer taught me about obsession and what a winning mindset really looks like. Inspired me to make sure every commercial deal has a triple bottom line.

Author of Save the Cat! There’s a reason every screen writer owns a copy.

Voice, performance and presentation coach. Hire her.

Can You Hear Me? Helped me to be a better virtual presenter during lockdown.

The best book on Rhetoric and understanding what Aristotle really meant. And he’s funny.

Mr. “Death by PowerPoint”. All his TED talks are must-sees.

The storytellers storyteller.

Obama’s former speech writer. Subscribe to the Crooked Media podcasts!

Reagan’s former speech writer. On Speaking Well is another of those essential books.

Blair’s former speech writer. His book When They Go Low, We Go High is outstanding.

She Speaks. One of the few books showcasing the best women communicators.

Story Brand was the initial inspiration behind the Communications Thinking framework.

Love Wins. It really does.

Helped me to understand the “science” of storytelling on a much deeper level.

My favourite columnist from the NY Times. He has 3 Pulitzer Prizes for a reason.

The Queen of Doughnut Economics. Superb TED speaker, author and economist.

Taught me all about the 3.5% rule and how a small group of people can change the world.

The ONE Thing. One of those books I have to re-read every few months.

The best climate communicator out there who taught me how to tell stories that matter.

The King of Marketing. He’s never written a word I didn’t like..

Co-Founder of Twitter who taught me that you can “Build a business, change the world and have fun”. Chess grandmaster who helped me to talk about AI in a much more human way.

Author of Body Language Decoder. I recommend him for workshops or as a drinking partner.

Poet. Preacher. Philosopher. One of the best communication coaches out there.

Steve Jobs creative director. Who constantly reminds me not to over complicate things.

Watch his Athens TEDx talk on changing the world and then go buy his books.

Wired For Story made me realise why the first sentence is EVERYTHING.

My favourite Masterclass host and probably the best dinner party guest anyone could ever have.