Anchors away
A delightful novel of motherhood and Chinese immigration
The heroine of “A River of Stars” is sent to California to have her baby. Then she runs away

Books & arts
Aug 18th 2018 edition


Aug 18th 2018
Give this article
Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

A River of Stars. By Vanessa Hua. Ballantine Books; 304 pages; $27.

ONLY the wealthiest Chinese women make their way to Perfume Bay, a five-star secret compound near Los Angeles for expectant mothers. Here the spoiled wives of Shanghai bosses—all carrying prized male heirs—consume diets rich in superstition (no bananas, which cause babies to slip out early); schedule Caesareans on auspicious dates; and pick English names worthy of their princelings (perhaps Stanley, in honour of Morgan Stanley, or Warren, after Warren Buffett). In time they return home with the ultimate status symbol: a son with American citizenship.


Scarlett Chen, the Chinese heroine of “A River of Stars”, Vanessa Hua’s delightful first novel, is sent to this lavish prison by her married lover, Boss Yeung, who runs the factory in the Pearl River delta which she helps manage. But she flees when she learns that Boss Yeung wants to pay her off and bring up the child himself. She escapes with Daisy, a privileged 17-year-old ABC—American-born Chinese—who is hunting for her own child’s father, a college student who has mysteriously disappeared.

The book follows the two women as they evade Boss Yeung’s detectives and reinvent themselves with their new-born babies in San Francisco’s Chinatown. For Scarlett, America is a land of promises and dreams. She knows that in China the illegitimate child of a single mother would be “second-class in every way”. She lacks the connections to send her offspring to a good Chinese school. And even the most senior women in her factory were expected to serve tea and defer to men at meetings. America has its setbacks, but it is still a land of opportunity. Besides, the French fries smell as “golden as a day at the beach”.

Ms Hua is a breezy, unfussy storyteller and an astute observer. She nicely captures some of the idiosyncrasies of American life as seen through a newcomer’s eyes. Scarlett gawks at frozen Thanksgiving turkeys, “hard and gleaming as the decapitated head of a marble statue”. She delights over her first slider (mini hamburger), noting that nothing signifies wealth and refinement “more than dining on toy-sized food”.

The insights on parenthood are acute. Having a child pushes Scarlett to reconsider her own childhood, and to see her often harsh mother more compassionately. She becomes more aware of the fact that she—that everyone—will die. She had always known this, of course, “but until now, she’d never felt such desolation.” Motherhood has contracted her life, “everything a blur except for a few metres around her, and yet how infinite, how intense the universe now seemed.”

In the end, every narrative thread is tied in a cutesy bow. Yet a novel about foreigners coming to America with stars in their eyes and anchor babies in their wombs is bound to feel timely. Without wading into policy debates, Ms Hua dramatises the stories and contributions of immigrants who believe in grand ideals and strive to live up to them.

起锚了
一部关于母性和中国移民的令人愉快的小说
星河》的女主人公被送到加州生孩子。然后她跑了

图书与艺术
2018年8月18日版


2018年8月18日
赠送此文
听听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

一条星河。作者：Vanessa Hua。Ballantine Books；304页；27美元。

只有最富有的中国妇女才会去Perfume Bay，这是洛杉矶附近一个为孕妇准备的五星级秘密场所。在这里，上海老板们被宠坏的妻子们--她们都带着珍贵的男性继承人--吃着充满迷信色彩的饮食（不吃香蕉，因为香蕉会导致婴儿提前滑出）；在吉日安排剖腹产；并为她们的王子取一个与之相称的英文名字（也许是纪念摩根-斯坦利的斯坦利，或者是沃伦-巴菲特的沃伦）。最后，他们带着最终的地位象征回国：一个拥有美国公民身份的儿子。


陈思嘉，《星河》中的中国女主角，Vanessa Hua令人愉快的第一部小说，被她的已婚情人杨老板送进了这个豪华的监狱，杨老板在珠江三角洲经营工厂，她帮助管理工厂。但当她得知杨老板想付钱给她并自己抚养孩子时，她逃走了。她和黛西一起逃亡，黛西是一个有特权的17岁美国人，出生在中国，她正在寻找她自己孩子的父亲，一个神秘失踪的大学生。

这本书讲述了这两个女人在旧金山唐人街躲避杨老板的侦探，并带着她们刚出生的孩子重新塑造自己。对斯嘉丽来说，美国是一个充满承诺和梦想的地方。她知道，在中国，单身母亲的私生子 "在各方面都是二等公民"。她缺乏关系，无法将她的后代送到好的中国学校。而在她的工厂里，即使是最高级的女性，也要在会议上端茶倒水，听从男性的安排。美国有它的挫折，但它仍然是一个充满机会的土地。此外，薯条的味道就像 "海滩上的一天一样金黄"。

华女士是一个轻松的、不挑剔的讲故事者，也是一个敏锐的观察者。她很好地捕捉到了一个新来者眼中的美国生活的一些特异之处。斯嘉丽目不转睛地看着冰冻的感恩节火鸡，"像大理石雕像的头一样坚硬和闪亮"。她为自己的第一个滑块（迷你汉堡包）感到高兴，指出没有什么比吃玩具大小的食物更能代表财富和高雅。

对父母身份的洞察力是敏锐的。有了孩子后，斯嘉丽开始重新考虑自己的童年，并更有同情心地看待她那常常很苛刻的母亲。她变得更加意识到她--每个人--都会死。当然，她一直都知道这一点，"但直到现在，她还没有感到如此的荒凉"。母亲的身份收缩了她的生命，"除了她周围的几米之外，一切都很模糊，然而，现在看来，宇宙是多么的无限，多么的强烈"。

最后，每条叙事线都被打上了一个可爱的蝴蝶结。然而，一部关于外国人带着星星来到美国，并在他们的子宫里生下锚定婴儿的小说，必然会让人感到及时。在不涉及政策辩论的情况下，华女士将那些相信宏伟理想并努力实现这些理想的移民的故事和贡献戏剧化了。