Life after life
Elif Shafak’s new novel is powerful and unflinching
When the story opens, its protagonist is already dead

Books & arts
Jun 15th 2019 edition


Jun 13th 2019
Give this article
10 Minutes 38 Seconds in This Strange World. By Elif Shafak.Viking; 320 pages; £14.99.

The protagonist of Elif Shafak’s 11th novel is dead when it begins. It is 1990, and the body of “Tequila Leila” has been dumped in a wheelie bin on the outskirts of Istanbul; yet, somehow, her mind remains active. “She wished she could go back and tell everyone that the dead did not die instantly, that they could, in fact, continue to reflect on things, including their own demise.” Later a medical examiner muses on the fascinating research he has encountered, apparently showing that brain activity can continue for up to 10 minutes and 38 seconds after death. This is how Ms Shafak’s book gets its title, and its conceit, as the dead-but-not-dead Leila scrolls back through the story of her life.

Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

Ms Shafak, who writes in both Turkish and English, is the most widely read female author in her native country. In 2006 she was prosecuted for “insulting Turkishness” (in her novel “The Bastard of Istanbul”, a character refers to the massacre of Armenians during the first world war as a genocide). She was acquitted, but has recently come under unwarranted pressure from the authorities again. Her novels are lyrical and often magical, drawing on a storehouse of Ottoman narrative culture; but they are also a reflection of her political beliefs, her characters frequently struggling against oppression.


In this book, Leila is a sex worker who comes to Istanbul from the distant eastern city of Van. Her childhood, her youth and the chain of events that lead to her death unspool through the sense-memories which haunt her as those 10 minutes and 38 seconds pass. Salt, cardamom coffee, spiced goat stew, sulphuric acid: each is a clue to a past that, during her life, she was in flight from. Memory, for her, is “a graveyard”.

In death, the graves open. Leila’s father had two wives; when she was born, she was given from the second to the childless first. The weight of this secret distorts Leila’s life, as other damaging secrets corrode the whole clan. Five stalwart friends help her survive. Their own narratives punctuate the novel; together they form a family far more loving than the one Leila escapes.

Ms Shafak weaves the history of modern Turkey through her story, sometimes glancingly (in Van, Leila’s parents live in a house which once belonged to Armenians) and sometimes more directly, as when Leila is caught up in a bloody clash between protesters and police in 1977. Yet this book is also a love-letter to Istanbul, which “like a lover’s face” is “receding in the mist”. By the end Ms Shafak persuades the reader to care powerfully about Leila, as the novel comes to a sorrowful but redemptive conclusion.

生命后的生活
埃利夫-沙法克的新小说强大而坚定
当故事开始时，主人公已经死亡

图书与艺术
2019年6月15日版


2019年6月13日
给这篇文章
10分38秒在这个陌生的世界。作者：Elif Shafak.Viking；320页；14.99英镑。

埃利夫-沙法克的第11部小说的主人公在小说开始时已经死亡。现在是1990年，"龙舌兰-莱拉 "的尸体被扔在伊斯坦布尔郊区的一个垃圾桶里；然而，不知何故，她的思想仍然活跃。"她希望她能回去告诉大家，死者并没有立即死亡，事实上，他们可以继续反思一些事情，包括他们自己的死亡。" 后来，一位法医对他所遇到的迷人的研究进行了思考，显然表明大脑活动可以在死后持续长达10分38秒。这就是沙法克女士这本书的书名，也是它的构思，因为死而不僵的莱拉回溯了她一生的故事。

聆听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

沙法克女士用土耳其语和英语写作，是她的祖国中读者最多的女作家。2006年，她因 "侮辱土耳其性 "而被起诉（在她的小说《伊斯坦布尔的混蛋》中，一个人物将第一次世界大战期间对亚美尼亚人的屠杀称为种族灭绝）。她被无罪释放，但最近又受到了当局的无端压力。她的小说是抒情的，往往是神奇的，借鉴了奥斯曼帝国叙事文化的宝库；但它们也是她政治信仰的反映，她的人物经常与压迫作斗争。


在这本书中，莱拉是一名性工作者，她从遥远的东部城市凡城来到伊斯坦布尔。她的童年、青年和导致她死亡的一连串事件，在这10分38秒的时间里，通过感官记忆的方式展开，这些记忆萦绕在她身上。盐、小豆蔻咖啡、炖羊肉、硫酸：每一样都是她一生中逃避的过去的线索。记忆，对她来说，是 "一个墓地"。

在死亡时，墓穴会被打开。莱拉的父亲有两个妻子；当她出生时，她从第二个妻子那里得到了没有孩子的第一个妻子。这个秘密的重量扭曲了莉拉的生活，因为其他破坏性的秘密腐蚀了整个家族。五个坚强的朋友帮助她生存。他们自己的叙述成为小说的亮点；他们共同组成了一个比莱拉逃离的那个家庭更有爱的家庭。

沙法克女士将现代土耳其的历史贯穿于她的故事中，有时是一闪而过（在凡城，莱拉的父母住在曾经属于亚美尼亚人的房子里），有时更直接，比如莱拉在1977年被卷入了抗议者和警察之间的流血冲突。然而，这本书也是一封写给伊斯坦布尔的情书，它 "就像情人的脸 "正 "在雾中退去"。到最后，沙法克女士说服读者强烈地关心莱拉，因为小说得出了一个悲哀但具有救赎意义的结论。