Taiwan and the Fight for Democracy
A Force for Good in the Changing International Order
By Tsai Ing-wen
November/December 2021

Tsai at a campaign rally in Chiayi City, Taiwan, September 2015
Billy H.C. Kwok / The New York Times
Sign in and save to read later
Save to Pocket
Print this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Send by email
Get a link
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/taiwan/2021-10-05/taiwan-and-fight-democracy
The story of Taiwan is one of resilience—of a country upholding democratic, progressive values while facing a constant challenge to its existence. Our success is a testament to what a determined practitioner of democracy, characterized by good governance and transparency, can achieve.

Yet the story of Taiwan is not only about the maintenance of our own democratic way of life. It is also about the strength and sense of responsibility Taiwan brings to efforts to safeguard the stability of the region and the world. Through hard work and courage, the 23.5 million people of Taiwan have succeeded in making a place for themselves in the international community.

Emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic, authoritarian regimes are more convinced than ever that their model of governance is better adapted than democracy to the requirements of the twenty-first century. This has fueled a contest of ideologies, and Taiwan lies at the intersection of contending systems. Vibrantly democratic and Western, yet influenced by a Chinese civilization and shaped by Asian traditions, Taiwan, by virtue of both its very existence and its continued prosperity, represents at once an affront to the narrative and an impediment to the regional ambitions of the Chinese Communist Party.

Stay informed.
In-depth analysis delivered weekly.
Taiwan’s refusal to give up, its persistent embrace of democracy, and its commitment to act as a responsible stakeholder (even when its exclusion from international institutions has made that difficult) are now spurring the rest of the world to reassess its value as a liberal democracy on the frontlines of a new clash of ideologies. As countries increasingly recognize the threat that the Chinese Communist Party poses, they should understand the value of working with Taiwan. And they should remember that if Taiwan were to fall, the consequences would be catastrophic for regional peace and the democratic alliance system. It would signal that in today’s global contest of values, authoritarianism has the upper hand over democracy.

INDO-PACIFIC FUTURES
The course of the Indo-Pacific, the world’s fastest-growing region, will in many ways shape the course of the twenty-first century. Its emergence offers myriad opportunities (in everything from trade and manufacturing to research and education) but also brings new tensions and systemic contradictions that, if not handled wisely, could have devastating effects on international security and the global economy. Chief among the drivers of these tensions is the rise of more assertive and self-assured authoritarianism, which is challenging the liberal democratic order that has defined international relations since the end of World War II. 

Beijing has never abandoned its ambitions toward Taiwan. But after years of double-digit investment in the Chinese military, and expansionist behavior across the Taiwan Strait and in surrounding maritime areas, Beijing is replacing its commitment to a peaceful resolution with an increasingly aggressive posture. Since 2020, People’s Liberation Army aircraft and vessels have markedly increased their activity in the Taiwan Strait, with almost daily intrusions into Taiwan’s southern air defense identification zone, as well as occasional crossings of the tacit median line between the island and the Chinese mainland (which runs along the middle of the strait, from the northeast near Japan’s outlying islands to the southwest near Hong Kong).

Taiwan is on the frontlines of the global contest between liberal democracy and authoritarianism.
Despite these worrying developments, the people of Taiwan have made clear to the entire world that democracy is nonnegotiable. Amid almost daily intrusions by the People’s Liberation Army, our position on cross-strait relations remains constant: Taiwan will not bend to pressure, but nor will it turn adventurist, even when it accumulates support from the international community. In other words, the maintenance of regional security will remain a significant part of Taiwan’s overall government policy. Yet we will also continue to express our openness to dialogue with Beijing, as the current administration has repeatedly done since 2016, as long as this dialogue proceeds in a spirit of equality and without political preconditions. And we are investing significant resources to deepen our understanding of the administration in Beijing—which will reduce the risks of misinterpretation and misjudgment and facilitate more precise decision-making on our cross-strait policies. We look to maintain a clear-eyed understanding of the external environment, both threats and opportunities, in order to ensure that Taiwan is prepared to meet its challenges.

At the same time, Taiwan is fully committed to working with other regional actors to ensure stability. In March, for example, Taiwan and the United States signed a memorandum of understanding on the establishment of a coast guard working group. This working group will improve communication and information sharing between the U.S. and Taiwanese coast guards, while also facilitating greater collaboration on shared objectives, such as preserving maritime resources and reducing illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. Such an understanding should serve as a springboard for greater collaboration on nonmilitary matters with other partners in the Indo-Pacific.

Taiwan has also launched a series of initiatives to modernize and reorganize its military, in order to be better prepared for both present and future challenges. In addition to investments in traditional platforms such as combat aircraft, Taiwan has made hefty investments in asymmetric capabilities, including mobile land-based antiship cruise missiles. We will launch the All-Out Defense Mobilization Agency in 2022, a military reform intended to ensure that a well-trained and well-equipped military reserve force stands as a more reliable backup for the regular military forces. Such initiatives are meant to maximize Taiwan’s self-reliance and preparedness and to signal that we are willing to bear our share of the burden and don’t take our security partners’ support for granted. 

At a Taiwanese military exercise simulating a Chinese invasion in Pingtung, Taiwan, May 2019
At a Taiwanese military exercise in Pingtung, Taiwan, May 2019
Tyrone Siu / Reuters
Taiwan’s efforts to contribute to regional security do not end there. We are fully committed to collaborating with our neighbors to prevent armed conflict in the East China and South China Seas, as well as in the Taiwan Strait. Taiwan lies along the first island chain, which runs from northern Japan to Borneo; should this line be broken by force, the consequences would disrupt international trade and destabilize the entire western Pacific. In other words, a failure to defend Taiwan would not only be catastrophic for the Taiwanese; it would overturn a security architecture that has allowed for peace and extraordinary economic development in the region for seven decades. 

Taiwan does not seek military confrontation. It hopes for peaceful, stable, predictable, and mutually beneficial coexistence with its neighbors. But if its democracy and way of life are threatened, Taiwan will do whatever it takes to defend itself. 

THE TAIWAN MODEL
Taiwan’s history is filled with both hardship and accomplishments, and the authors of this history are the people of Taiwan. Over the past few decades, we have overcome adversity and international isolation to achieve one of modern political history’s most successful democratic transitions. The key ingredients of this achievement have been patience, resourcefulness, pragmatism, and a stubborn refusal to give up. Understanding both the delicate balance of power in the region and the need for support, the Taiwanese know that practical collaboration is often better than being loud or adventurous and that a willingness to lend a hand is better than trying to provoke or impose a system on others.

While the people of Taiwan have not always achieved consensus, over time, a collective identity has emerged. Through our interactions with the rest of the world, we have absorbed values that we have made our own, merging them with local traditions to create a liberal, progressive order and a new sense of what it means to be Taiwanese.

At the heart of this identity is our embrace of democracy, reflecting a choice that the Taiwanese made and fought for after decades of authoritarian rule. Once the Taiwanese had made that choice, there was no looking back. Imperfect though it may be, democracy has become a nonnegotiable part of who we are. This determination gives Taiwan the resilience to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century and provides a firewall against forces, both internal and external, seeking to undermine its hard-won democratic institutions. 

Beijing has never abandoned its ambitions toward Taiwan. 
A fundamental part of this embrace of democracy is a firm belief that the future of Taiwan is to be decided by the Taiwanese through democratic means. Although Taiwanese in some ways differ in their sense of what exactly this future should look like, we are united in our commitment to democracy and the values and institutions that allow us to fight back against external efforts to erode our identity and alter the way of life we cherish. The great majority of us regard democracy as the best form of government for Taiwan and are willing to do what is necessary to defend it. Those beliefs are tested every day, but there is no doubt that the people would rise up should the very existence of Taiwan be under threat. 

Civil society has always played a major role in Taiwan. During the period of authoritarian rule under the Kuomintang, the Dangwai movement pushed to lift martial law and democratize Taiwan; even after being instrumental in ending martial law, it continued to offer an active and effective check on government power. Today, the extent of Taiwanese civil society’s role in governance is unmatched anywhere in the region—a reflection of the trust between elected officials and citizens, who as a result are able to influence policy both through and between elections. 

Taiwan’s civil society has also proved integral to the island’s international standing. Taiwan’s exclusion from the United Nations and most other international institutions could have led to isolation, but Taiwan instead tapped into the tremendous creativity and capacity of its people, allowing us to establish global connections by other means—through small businesses, nongovernmental organizations, and various semi-official groupings. Rather than being an impediment, the refusal of many countries to officially recognize Taiwan compelled us to think asymmetrically, combating efforts to negate Taiwan’s existence by deepening our engagement with the world through nontraditional channels.

In short, despite decades of isolation, the people of Taiwan have succeeded in making a place for themselves within the international community—and transforming Taiwan itself into an economic powerhouse and one of the most vibrant democracies in the Indo-Pacific.

CHANGING THE RULES
Taiwan’s ability to survive and even thrive as a liberal democracy despite the extraordinary challenges to its existence has important implications for the prevailing rules of international relations. Our bid to play a more meaningful role in the international community is evolving in the context of changing regional politics, with more assertive challenges to the liberal international order, backed by the economic and political power to turn those ambitions into action. With increasing awareness of the potential impact of such authoritarian ambitions, more and more countries have been willing to reexamine their long-standing assumptions about, and self-imposed limitations on, engagement with Taiwan.

Through its evolution as an economic powerhouse and a participatory democracy, Taiwan seeks to be—and in many ways already is—part of the solution to emerging challenges with ramifications on a planetary scale, from climate change and new diseases, to proliferation and terrorism, to human trafficking and threats to supply chains. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown that the world is now so interconnected that the outbreak of a disease in one corner of the planet can, within a matter of months, reach pandemic proportions. In many cases, the speed with which new emergencies arise and spread is beyond the ability of states and existing international institutions to respond. To prepare for future emergencies, the international community must move toward inclusiveness rather than rigidly adhering to current structures.

Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 in Taipei, Taiwan, September 2021
Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 in Taipei, Taiwan, September 2021
Ann Wang / Reuters
Even as it experienced a flare-up in COVID-19 cases last spring, Taiwan has demonstrated to the world that democratic systems can respond effectively to a pandemic, harnessing the powers of artificial intelligence, big data, and surveillance networks while ensuring that the information gathered is used responsibly. The pandemic has also given Taiwan an opportunity to share its experience with the world and to provide much-needed medical assistance to struggling countries. This is so despite its long exclusion from global institutions such as the World Health Organization, which has left Taiwan little choice but to develop its own methods of cooperating and communicating with international partners. Being left out of the United Nations and other multilateral institutions has encouraged resilience and spurred novel approaches to dealing with challenges and crises of all kinds.

Despite being kept out in the cold, Taiwan has strived to adhere to international protocols, such as the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, amending its domestic laws and seeking its own formulas for meeting increasingly complex challenges. Taiwan is also working proactively with its partners on the development of its region. In 2016, we launched the New Southbound Policy, which facilitates regional prosperity through trade and investment partnerships, educational and people-to-people exchanges, and technological and medical cooperation with countries in South and Southeast Asia, as well as Australia and New Zealand. Taiwan is also making investments in these partners through its business community, simultaneously fostering secure supply chains and regional development.

If Taiwan were to fall, the consequences would be catastrophic for regional peace and the democratic alliance system.
Indeed, with its high-tech leadership and educated and globalized workforce, Taiwan is well positioned to help create secure global supply chains in sectors such as semiconductors, biotechnology, and renewable energy—all areas where international cooperation is needed now more than ever. Our semiconductor industry is especially significant: a “silicon shield” that allows Taiwan to protect itself and others from aggressive attempts by authoritarian regimes to disrupt global supply chains. We are working to further strengthen our role in securing global supply chains with a new regional high-end production hub initiative, which will solidify our position in the global supply chain. Besides making computer chips, Taiwan is active in high-precision manufacturing, artificial intelligence, 5G applications, renewable energy, biotechnology, and more, helping create more diverse and global supply chains that can withstand disruption, human or otherwise.

Taiwan derives additional soft power from expertise and capabilities in a variety of other fields, including education, public health, medicine, and natural-disaster prevention. And these are fields in which our experts and institutions are taking on a growing regional role. Our universities, for example, are prepared to work with other universities in the region to develop Chinese-language training. Our medical facilities are sharing expertise in medical technology and management with partners around Asia. And we are ready to work with major countries to provide infrastructure investment in developing countries, leveraging efficiency while promoting good governance, transparency, and environmental protection. Similar efforts are being made through an agreement with the United States to enhance cooperation on infrastructure financing, investment, and market development in Latin America and Southeast Asia. In short, Taiwan can be a crucial force in the peaceful development and prosperity of our region and the world.

DEMOCRATIC VALUES
Sitting on the frontlines of the global contest between the liberal democratic order and the authoritarian alternative, Taiwan also has an important part to play in strengthening global democracy. In 2003, we established the region’s first nongovernmental organization devoted to democracy assistance and advocacy, the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy. Following the models set by the United States’ National Endowment for Democracy and the United Kingdom’s Westminster Foundation for Democracy, the TFD provides funding for other nongovernmental organizations, international and domestic, that advocate democratic development and human rights. It also works to promote public participation in governance through mechanisms such as participatory budgeting and to encourage youth engagement through initiatives such as the annual Asia Young Leaders for Democracy program. In 2019, the TFD organized its inaugural regional forum on religious freedom, and my government appointed its first ambassador-at-large for religious freedom. 

Taiwan’s strong record on democracy, gender equality, and press and religious freedom has also made it a home for a growing number of global nongovernmental organizations, which have faced an increasingly difficult environment in Asia. Organizations including Reporters Without Borders, the National Democratic Institute, the International Republican Institute, the European Values Center for Security Policy, and the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom have set up regional offices in Taiwan. From Taiwan, they are able to continue their important work in the region without the constant threats of surveillance, harassment, and interruptions by authorities. We have also made ourselves hospitable to international institutions interested in establishing a presence in the Indo-Pacific, helping turn Taiwan into a hub for advancing the interests of the democratic community.

Long left out in the cold, Taiwan is ready to be a global force for good.
Meanwhile, the Global Cooperation and Training Framework—a platform jointly administered by Taiwan, the United States, and other partners that allows us to share our expertise with countries around the world—has fostered creative cooperation on issues such as law enforcement, public health, and good governance. One recent round of GCTF activity, for example, focused on media literacy and how democracies can combat disinformation—an area in which Taiwan has an abundance of experience.

Over the past five years, more than 2,300 experts and officials from more than 87 countries have attended GCTF workshops in Taiwan, and the forum will continue to expand—offering a path to greater collaboration between Taiwan and countries around the world, including the United States. Indeed, Taiwan works closely with the United States on many issues, in the service of regional peace and stability. Our hope is to shoulder more responsibility by being a close political and economic partner of the United States and other like-minded countries. 

A FORCE FOR GOOD
The threat posed by authoritarian regimes has served as an important wake-up call for democracies, spurring them to emerge from their complacency. Although extraordinary challenges remain, democracies around the world are now working to safeguard their values and renew their ossified institutions. Alliances are being rekindled to serve the interests of the international community.

Taiwan may be small in terms of territory, but it has proved that it can have a large global presence—and that this presence matters to the world. It has persevered in the face of existential threats and made itself an indispensable actor in the Indo-Pacific. And through it all, the Taiwanese commitment to democracy has never been stronger: the people of Taiwan know that democracy is the lasting path and the only game in town. 

Over the past two years, our handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, and our assistance to and collaboration with countries around the world, has offered one more example of the crucial role that Taiwan can play and of why Taiwan matters. Going forward, our high-tech industries, and especially our production of advanced semiconductors, will continue to fuel the global economy. And Taiwan’s ability to balance ties to various countries while defending its democratic way of life will continue to inspire others in the region. 

We have never shied away from challenges. Although the world faces an arduous journey ahead, this presents Taiwan with opportunities not seen before. It should increasingly be regarded as part of the solution, particularly as democratic countries seek to find the right balance between the need to engage and trade with authoritarian countries and the need to defend the values and democratic ideals that define their societies. Long left out in the cold, Taiwan is ready to be a global force for good, with a role on the international stage that is commensurate with its abilities.

台湾与争取民主的斗争
变化中的国际秩序中的正义力量
作者：蔡英文
2021年11月/12月

2015年9月，蔡英文在台湾嘉义市的竞选集会上。
Billy H.C. Kwok/The New York Times
登录并保存以便日后阅读
保存到口袋里
打印这篇文章
在Twitter上分享
在Facebook上分享
通过电子邮件发送
获取链接
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/taiwan/2021-10-05/taiwan-and-fight-democracy
台湾的故事是一个坚韧不拔的故事--一个坚持民主、进步价值的国家，同时面临着对其生存的不断挑战。我们的成功证明了一个坚定的民主实践者，以良好的治理和透明度为特征，可以实现什么。

然而，台湾的故事不仅是关于我们自己的民主生活方式的维护。它也是关于台湾为维护地区和世界稳定的努力所带来的力量和责任感。通过努力和勇气，2350万台湾人民已经成功地在国际社会中占有一席之地。

在COVID-19大流行之后，威权政权比以往任何时候都更相信他们的治理模式比民主更适应21世纪的要求。这助长了一场意识形态的较量，而台湾正处于各种制度的交汇处。充满活力的民主和西方，但受到中国文明的影响和亚洲传统的塑造，台湾，由于它的存在和持续繁荣，既是对中国共产党的叙述的冒犯，也是对其地区野心的阻碍。

保持信息畅通。
每周提供深入的分析。
台湾拒绝放弃，坚持拥护民主，并承诺作为一个负责任的利益相关者行事（即使它被排除在国际机构之外使之变得困难），现在正促使世界其他地区重新评估它作为一个自由民主国家在新的意识形态冲突前线的价值。随着各国日益认识到中国共产党带来的威胁，他们应该理解与台湾合作的价值。他们应该记住，如果台湾沦陷，其后果对地区和平和民主联盟体系将是灾难性的。这将表明，在今天的全球价值竞争中，威权主义比民主更占优势。

印度洋-太平洋的未来
印度洋-太平洋是世界上发展最快的地区，它的走向将在许多方面决定21世纪的进程。它的出现提供了无数的机会（从贸易和制造业到研究和教育等各个方面），但也带来了新的紧张局势和系统性矛盾，如果不加以明智的处理，可能对国际安全和全球经济产生破坏性影响。这些紧张局势的主要驱动因素是更加自信和自负的威权主义的崛起，它正在挑战自二战结束以来一直定义国际关系的自由民主秩序。

北京从未放弃其对台湾的野心。但是，经过多年来对中国军队两位数的投资，以及在台湾海峡两岸和周边海域的扩张行为，北京正在以一种日益咄咄逼人的姿态取代其对和平解决的承诺。自2020年以来，中国人民解放军的飞机和船只在台湾海峡的活动明显增加，几乎每天都会侵入台湾南部的防空识别区，以及偶尔越过台湾岛和中国大陆之间的默契中线（该中线沿着海峡中间，从东北方向靠近日本离岛到西南方向靠近香港）。

台湾正处于自由民主和威权主义之间的全球竞争的前线。
尽管有这些令人担忧的发展，台湾人民已经向整个世界表明，民主是不可谈判的。在人民解放军几乎每天的入侵中，我们对两岸关系的立场始终如一：台湾不会屈服于压力，但也不会转向冒险主义，即使它积累了国际社会的支持。换言之，维护地区安全仍将是台湾政府整体政策的重要组成部分。然而，我们也将继续表达我们对与北京对话的开放态度，正如本届政府自2016年以来反复做的那样，只要这种对话是在平等的精神和没有政治前提的情况下进行。而且，我们正在投入大量资源，以加深我们对北京政府的了解--这将减少误解和误判的风险，并促进我们对两岸政策作出更精确的决策。我们期待对外部环境，包括威胁和机遇，保持清醒的认识，以确保台湾准备好迎接挑战。

同时，台湾完全致力于与其他区域行为体合作以确保稳定。例如，在3月，台湾和美国签署了一份关于建立海岸警卫队工作组的谅解备忘录。这个工作组将改善美国和台湾海岸警卫队之间的沟通和信息共享，同时也促进在共同目标上的更大合作，如保护海洋资源和减少非法、未报告和无管制的捕鱼。这种理解应该成为与印度洋-太平洋地区其他伙伴在非军事事务上进行更大合作的跳板。

台湾还发起了一系列倡议，对其军队进行现代化和重组，以更好地应对当前和未来的挑战。除了对作战飞机等传统平台的投资外，台湾还对不对称能力进行了大量投资，包括移动式陆基反舰巡航导弹。我们将在2022年启动全面防卫动员机构，这项军事改革旨在确保一支训练有素、装备精良的军事后备力量成为正规军队更可靠的后备力量。这些举措是为了最大限度地提高台湾的自力更生和准备，并表明我们愿意承担我们的责任，不把我们的安全伙伴的支持视为理所当然。

2019年5月，在台湾屏东举行的模拟中国入侵的台湾军事演习中
2019年5月，在台湾屏东的一次台湾军事演习中
Tyrone Siu / Reuters
台湾为区域安全作出贡献的努力并没有结束。我们完全致力于与我们的邻国合作，防止在东中国海和南中国海以及台湾海峡发生武装冲突。台湾位于从日本北部到婆罗洲的第一岛链沿线；如果这条线路被武力打破，其后果将扰乱国际贸易并破坏整个西太平洋的稳定。换句话说，如果不能保卫台湾，不仅对台湾人来说是灾难性的，而且会颠覆七十年来使该地区得以和平和非凡经济发展的安全架构。

台湾并不寻求军事对抗。它希望与邻国实现和平、稳定、可预测和互利的共存。但是，如果它的民主和生活方式受到威胁，台湾将不惜一切代价来保护自己。

台湾模式
台湾的历史充满了艰辛和成就，而这段历史的作者是台湾人民。在过去的几十年里，我们克服了逆境和国际孤立，实现了现代政治史上最成功的民主过渡之一。这一成就的关键因素是耐心、机智、务实，以及顽强地拒绝放弃。台湾人既了解该地区微妙的权力平衡，也了解对支持的需要，他们知道实际的合作往往比喧哗或冒险要好，愿意伸出援手比试图挑衅或将制度强加于人要好。

虽然台湾人民并不总是取得共识，但随着时间的推移，已经出现了一种集体认同。通过我们与世界其他地区的互动，我们吸收了我们自己的价值观，将它们与当地的传统融合在一起，创造了一个自由、进步的秩序，以及作为台湾人的新意识。

这种认同的核心是我们对民主的拥抱，反映了台湾人在几十年的威权统治后做出的选择和争取。一旦台湾人做出这个选择，就没有回头路可走了。尽管不完美，但民主已经成为我们的身份中不可谈判的一部分。这种决心使台湾有能力应对21世纪的挑战，并提供了一道防火墙，防止内部和外部力量试图破坏其来之不易的民主体制。

北京从未放弃其对台湾的野心。
这种对民主的拥抱的一个基本部分是坚信台湾的未来将由台湾人通过民主手段决定。虽然台湾人在某些方面对这个未来到底应该是什么样子有不同的看法，但我们在对民主的承诺上是一致的，这些价值和制度使我们能够反击外部侵蚀我们身份和改变我们所珍惜的生活方式的努力。我们中的绝大多数人认为民主是台湾最好的政府形式，并愿意做必要的事情来捍卫它。这些信念每天都受到考验，但毫无疑问，如果台湾的生存受到威胁，人民会奋起反抗。

公民社会在台湾一直扮演着重要的角色。在国民党的威权统治时期，党卫军运动推动了取消戒严令和台湾民主化；即使在结束戒严令的过程中发挥了作用，它仍然对政府权力提供了积极和有效的制约。今天，台湾公民社会在治理方面的作用在该地区任何地方都是无与伦比的，这反映了民选官员和公民之间的信任，因此他们能够通过选举和选举之间影响政策。

事实证明，台湾的公民社会对该岛的国际地位也是不可或缺的。台湾被排除在联合国和大多数其他国际机构之外，可能会导致孤立，但台湾却利用了其人民巨大的创造力和能力，使我们能够通过其他方式--通过小企业、非政府组织和各种半官方团体--建立全球联系。许多国家拒绝正式承认台湾，这非但不是一个障碍，反而迫使我们进行不对称的思考，通过非传统的渠道加深我们与世界的接触，打击否定台湾存在的努力。

简而言之，尽管几十年来处于孤立状态，台湾人民已经成功地在国际社会中占有一席之地，并将台湾本身转变为一个经济强国和印度洋-太平洋地区最具活力的民主国家之一。

改变规则
台湾作为一个自由民主国家，尽管面临着非同寻常的挑战，但仍然能够生存，甚至发展壮大，这对国际关系的现行规则有着重要的影响。我们争取在国际社会中发挥更有意义的作用，是在不断变化的地区政治背景下发展起来的，对自由主义国际秩序的挑战更加坚定，并有经济和政治力量的支持，将这些野心转化为行动。随着对这种威权主义野心的潜在影响的认识不断提高，越来越多的国家愿意重新审视它们对与台湾交往的长期假设和自我设限。

通过其作为经济强国和参与性民主的演变，台湾试图成为--而且在许多方面已经成为--解决影响全球的新挑战的一部分，从气候变化和新疾病，到扩散和恐怖主义，到人口贩运和供应链的威胁。COVID-19大流行病表明，世界现在是如此相互关联，以至于在地球的一个角落爆发的疾病可以在几个月内达到大流行的程度。在许多情况下，新的紧急情况出现和传播的速度超出了国家和现有国际机构的应对能力。为了准备应对未来的紧急情况，国际社会必须朝着包容性的方向发展，而不是僵化地坚持现有的结构。

2021年9月，在台湾台北接种COVID-19疫苗
2021年9月，台湾台北，接种COVID-19疫苗。
Ann Wang / 路透社
即使在去年春天经历了COVID-19病例的爆发，台湾已经向世界证明，民主制度可以有效地应对大流行病，利用人工智能、大数据和监控网络的力量，同时确保收集的信息得到负责任的使用。这场大流行还让台湾有机会与世界分享其经验，并向挣扎中的国家提供急需的医疗援助。尽管台湾长期被排除在世界卫生组织等全球机构之外，这使得台湾别无选择，只能制定自己的方法与国际伙伴合作和沟通。被排除在联合国和其他多边机构之外，鼓励了复原力，刺激了应对各种挑战和危机的新方法。

尽管被排除在外，台湾仍努力遵守国际协议，如《联合国气候变化框架公约》，修订其国内法律，并寻求自己的公式来应对日益复杂的挑战。台湾也在积极主动地与合作伙伴合作，发展本地区。2016年，我们推出了新南向政策，通过与南亚和东南亚国家以及澳大利亚和新西兰的贸易和投资伙伴关系、教育和人民交流、技术和医疗合作，促进区域繁荣。台湾还通过其商业界对这些伙伴进行投资，同时促进安全供应链和区域发展。

如果台湾沦陷，其后果将对地区和平和民主联盟体系造成灾难性的影响。
事实上，凭借其高科技的领导地位和受过教育的全球化劳动力，台湾完全有能力帮助在半导体、生物技术和可再生能源等领域建立安全的全球供应链，这些领域现在比以往任何时候都更需要国际合作。我们的半导体产业尤其重要：它是一个 "硅盾"，使台湾能够保护自己和其他国家免受独裁政权破坏全球供应链的侵略性企图的影响。我们正在努力进一步加强我们在确保全球供应链方面的作用，采取新的区域高端生产中心举措，这将巩固我们在全球供应链中的地位。除了制造计算机芯片，台湾还活跃在高精度制造、人工智能、5G应用、可再生能源、生物技术等领域，帮助创建更加多样化的全球供应链，以抵御人为或其他因素的破坏。

台湾从其他各种领域的专业知识和能力中获得了额外的软实力，包括教育、公共卫生、医药和自然灾害预防。在这些领域，我们的专家和机构正发挥着越来越大的区域作用。例如，我们的大学准备与该地区的其他大学合作，发展中文培训。我们的医疗机构正在与亚洲各地的合作伙伴分享医疗技术和管理方面的专业知识。我们准备与主要国家合作，在发展中国家提供基础设施投资，在提高效率的同时促进良好的治理、透明度和环境保护。我们正在通过与美国的协议做出类似的努力，加强在拉丁美洲和东南亚的基础设施融资、投资和市场开发方面的合作。简而言之，台湾可以成为我们地区和世界和平发展和繁荣的重要力量。

民主价值
台湾位于自由民主秩序和威权主义替代方案的全球竞争前线，在加强全球民主方面也可以发挥重要作用。2003年，我们成立了本地区第一个致力于民主援助和宣传的非政府组织--台湾民主基金会。按照美国国家民主基金会和英国威斯敏斯特民主基金会的模式，台湾民主基金会向其他倡导民主发展和人权的国际和国内非政府组织提供资金。它还致力于通过参与式预算编制等机制促进公众参与治理，并通过年度亚洲青年领袖民主项目等举措鼓励青年参与。2019年，台盟组织了首届宗教自由区域论坛，我国政府任命了首位宗教自由无任所大使。

台湾在民主、性别平等以及新闻和宗教自由方面的良好记录，也使其成为越来越多的全球非政府组织的家园，这些组织在亚洲面临的环境越来越艰难。包括无国界记者组织、国家民主研究所、国际共和党研究所、欧洲安全政策价值中心和弗里德里希-瑙曼自由基金会等组织都在台湾设立了地区办事处。从台湾，他们能够继续他们在该地区的重要工作，而不会受到当局的监视、骚扰和干扰的持续威胁。我们也对有意在印度洋-太平洋地区设立机构的国际机构表示欢迎，帮助将台湾变成推进民主社会利益的中心。

长期被冷落的台湾已经准备好成为一支全球的正义力量。
同时，全球合作与培训框架--一个由台湾、美国和其他伙伴共同管理的平台，使我们能够与世界各国分享我们的专业知识--已经促进了在执法、公共卫生和善治等问题上的创造性合作。例如，最近一轮GCTF活动的重点是媒体素养以及民主国家如何打击虚假信息--这是台湾拥有丰富经验的一个领域。

在过去的五年里，来自87个国家的2300多名专家和官员参加了在台湾举办的GCTF研讨会，该论坛将继续扩大--为台湾与包括美国在内的世界各国之间的合作提供了一条道路。事实上，台湾在许多问题上与美国紧密合作，为地区和平与稳定服务。我们希望通过成为美国和其他志同道合的国家的密切政治和经济伙伴来承担更多的责任。

一支正义的力量
独裁政权构成的威胁对民主国家来说是一个重要的警钟，促使它们从自满中走出来。虽然仍然存在非同寻常的挑战，但世界各地的民主国家现在正努力维护其价值观，并更新其僵化的机构。为了服务于国际社会的利益，联盟正在被重新点燃。

台湾在领土上可能很小，但它已经证明，它可以有一个很大的全球存在，而且这种存在对世界很重要。它在面对生存威胁时坚持不懈，并使自己成为印度洋-太平洋地区不可缺少的行为者。通过这一切，台湾对民主的承诺从未如此强烈：台湾人民知道，民主是持久之路，也是城里唯一的游戏。

在过去的两年里，我们对COVID-19大流行病的处理，以及我们对世界各国的援助和合作，为台湾可以发挥的关键作用和台湾为什么重要提供了又一个例子。展望未来，我们的高科技产业，特别是我们的先进半导体生产，将继续推动全球经济。而台湾在捍卫其民主生活方式的同时平衡与各国关系的能力将继续激励该地区的其他国家。

我们从来没有回避过挑战。虽然世界面临着一个艰巨的旅程，但这给台湾带来了前所未有的机遇。它应该越来越多地被视为解决方案的一部分，特别是在民主国家寻求在与威权国家接触和贸易的需要与捍卫界定其社会的价值观和民主理想的需要之间找到适当的平衡。长期被冷落的台湾已经准备好成为一股全球正义的力量，在国际舞台上发挥与其能力相称的作用。