The first Minecraft novel...or is it a self-help book?
For anyone not obsessed with low-resolution blocks, “Minecraft: The Island” is like an alien artefact



Jul 10th 2017
BY TIM MARTIN

Give this article
I suppose I expected the Minecraft novel to be weird, because everything else about Minecraft is weird. The virtual environment that started as a bedroom-programmed applet in 2009 is now the second-biggest video game of all time, with more than 40m people a month exploring its endless freeform world of low-resolution blocks, in which you dodge enemies, dig caves, erect fabulous structures and – yes – mine and craft. Last month Microsoft, which paid $2.5bn to acquire Minecraft in 2014, pointed out that if all the nearly 107m people who had bought a copy were to form a nation, it’d be the 12th most populous on earth.

So perhaps it’s no surprise that Minecraft has begun to generate its own culture. But this – at least for anyone else rapidly descending the entropy slide from youth to age – is where the real strangeness starts to creep in. There’s Kurt J. Mac, the chap who has been streaming his quest to walk as far as he possibly can in Minecraft for six years, over 646 instalments and counting. There are the adventures of Stampy Cat (pictured), aka twenty-something Joseph Garrett from England, whose squeaky-voiced commentaries have put his channel in YouTube’s top ten and made mega-celebrities of Stampy and his friends Sqaishey Quack, Polly Reindeer and Fizzy Elephant. There are the spin-off games. There’s the forthcoming movie. Weirdest of all, there’s the distinctly science-fictional experience, for anyone over 30, of talking to anyone under the age of 12 about Minecraft. To them, it’s an activity, a society and a children’s channel rolled into one…and you listen as you might to a visitor from another planet.


And so to this novel, a 270-page effort by Max Brooks, whose previous zombie novel “World War Z” inspired a vast Hollywood film franchise starring Brad Pitt. The blurb boasts that Brooks’s book is the “first ever official Minecraft novel”, a comment that quietly acknowledges the number of unofficial ones floating about: a gentleman called Mark Cleverton, for example, has published at least nine “Unofficial Minecrafter’s Adventures”. Brooks’s, however, has the logo of Minecraft’s creator company Mojang, plus a little gold badge saying “Official Product” to mark it out as the first commissioned project. Who knows what fabulous sum changed hands to make this first instalment happen. But if you think it’ll be the last, you’re mad.


Inspiring life lessons? Unless you live and breathe Minecraft, it’s a soul-sapping read
And reading it is, well, it’s like reading an alien artefact, or a book produced in a culture where the traditions of entertainment evolved differently. From beginning to end, it is nothing less than a first-person description of what it’s like to play Minecraft, starting with the protagonist’s first awakening in a world made of blocks (“Everything was a combination of cubes”) and continuing with his realisation that he, too, is made of blocks: “Brick-shaped feet, rectangular legs, a shoebox-shaped torso”. The story in the book is simply the story of booting up the computer game and spending a few hours in it, as the nameless protagonist slowly discovers the game’s mechanisms, enemies and rules – mining, crafting, building, combining materials – that govern the game’s environment. “In addition to the ability to heal quickly, punch things from a distance, and stick blocks to themselves without supports,” writes Brooks, in a representative example of the novel’s bland explanatory style, “somehow this world allowed me to transform raw materials into finished products in seconds.”

In chapter after chapter, with his only interlocutors a few cows, some zombies and a chicken, Brooks’s protagonist upgrades his inventory, builds himself new weapons, makes a building or two, smashes a load of zombies and spiders and moves on to new territory. There’s no one else to talk to, so he has to shout his observations aloud: “Never give up!” “Me strong! Me have weapon!” “When the world changes, you’ve got to change with it!”. These and other self-helpish observations are summarised in a 36-point listicle at the end of the book: “Panic drowns thought”; “Tantrums never help”; “It’s not failure that matters, it’s how you recover”. And the kicker: “The most important thing you can craft is you.” This, I suspect, is where Brooks really earned his gold Official Product badge: he’s writing the game’s apologia pro vita sua, casting Minecraft’s basic survival loop – combine materials, build houses, clonk monsters, repeat – as a set of inspiring life lessons for the real world.

This may well be the way that the game’s players like to see themselves, but this book is a soul-sapping business if you’ve ever read a novel that isn’t about Minecraft. Character, plot and dialogue vanish on the wind, leaving only Brooks’s endless high-fidelity report of playing a video game – mine-craft-repeat, mine-craft-repeat – salted with a near-infinite supply of motivational quotes. By the halfway point I’d acquired a new and vivid sympathy for the poor computer in “2001: A Space Odyssey”, watching as its memory banks and its higher functions are dismantled one by one.

I don’t think I’ll be the only one to feel like this, but then I am a foreigner to Minecraft, one of those who approaches it as a video game (and, indeed, an enjoyable one) but not a way of life. That, however, is the equivalent of travelling on a tourist visa in the Republic of Minecraft. To enjoy Brooks’s novel, I think you’d have to be the sort of person who wants to take breaks from the game you’re playing to watch someone else play it on YouTube. You’d need to find something comforting about the way that this book so perfectly recapitulates your own experiences in an online world, while framing your journey through its virtual spaces as a primer for life itself. You might also need to have wondered occasionally, playing Minecraft, whether someone could possibly use the tools in Minecraft to programme Minecraft in Minecraft, so you could play Minecraft while you played Minecraft. And if you’ve read all this with a tremor of recognition…hi there. I think there are more and more of you by the day.

Minecraft: The Island by Max Brooks is out now, published by Penguin Random House

第一本Minecraft小说......或者是一本自助书？
对于任何不迷恋低分辨率积木的人来说，《Minecraft》。岛》就像一件外星文物



2017年7月10日
作者：TIM MARTIN

给这篇文章
我想我预计《Minecraft》的小说会很奇怪，因为关于《Minecraft》的其他一切都很奇怪。这个在2009年作为卧室编程的小程序开始的虚拟环境，现在是有史以来第二大视频游戏，每月有超过4千万人探索其无尽的低分辨率积木的自由世界，在其中你可以躲避敌人，挖掘洞穴，建立神话般的结构，以及--是的--采矿和工艺。上个月，微软在2014年支付25亿美元收购了《Minecraft》，并指出，如果所有购买过《Minecraft》的近1.07亿人组成一个国家，它将是地球上第12大人口大国。

因此，也许《Minecraft》已经开始产生自己的文化并不奇怪。但这--至少对任何其他人来说，从青年到老年迅速下降的熵滑梯--是真正的奇怪之处开始悄然出现。有一个叫库尔特-J-麦克（Kurt J. Mac）的家伙，他一直在流传他的追求，即在《Minecraft》中尽可能走得远，已经六年了，超过646期，而且还在不断增加。还有斯坦比猫的冒险（如图），也就是来自英格兰的20多岁的约瑟夫-加勒特，他的吱吱喳喳的评论使他的频道进入了YouTube的前十名，并使斯坦比和他的朋友斯凯希-夸克、波利-驯鹿和菲兹-大象成为超级名人。还有衍生的游戏。还有即将上映的电影。最奇怪的是，对于30岁以上的人来说，与12岁以下的人谈论Minecraft是一种明显的科幻体验。对他们来说，这是一项活动，一个社会和一个儿童频道，融为一体......你听着就像听着一个来自另一个星球的访客。


因此，这本小说是马克斯-布鲁克斯(Max Brooks)270页的作品，他之前的僵尸小说《世界大战》激发了布拉德-皮特(Brad Pitt)主演的一部庞大的好莱坞电影系列。该书的简介中吹嘘说，布鲁克斯的书是 "有史以来第一本正式的Minecraft小说"，这一评论悄悄地承认了漂浮着的非官方小说的数量：例如，一位名叫马克-克莱弗顿的先生已经出版了至少九本 "非官方Minecrafter's Adventures"。然而，布鲁克斯的作品有Minecraft创造者公司Mojang的标志，还有一个写着 "官方产品 "的小金章，以标明它是第一个委托项目。谁也不知道为了实现这第一部作品，有多少神奇的资金被转手。但如果你认为这将是最后一部，你就疯了。


鼓舞人心的生活课程？除非你生活和呼吸的Minecraft，这是一个灵魂的阅读
而阅读它，嗯，它就像阅读一件外星文物，或者一本在娱乐传统演变不同的文化中产生的书。从头到尾，它无异于以第一人称描述了玩《Minecraft》的感受，从主人公在一个由积木组成的世界中第一次觉醒开始（"所有东西都是立方体的组合"），一直到他意识到自己也是由积木组成。"砖形的脚，长方形的腿，鞋盒形的躯干"。书中的故事只是启动电脑游戏并在其中度过几个小时的故事，无名的主角慢慢地发现了游戏的机制、敌人和规则--采矿、手工制作、建筑、组合材料--这些规则支配着游戏的环境。"除了能够快速愈合，从远处打东西，在没有支撑物的情况下将块状物粘在自己身上，"布鲁克斯写道，这是小说平淡的解释风格的一个代表性例子，"不知为何，这个世界允许我在几秒钟内将原材料转化为成品"。

在一章又一章中，他唯一的对话者是几头牛、一些僵尸和一只鸡，布鲁克斯的主人公升级了他的库存，为自己打造了新的武器，建造了一两座建筑，粉碎了大量的僵尸和蜘蛛，并继续向新的领域前进。没有其他人可以交谈，所以他不得不大声喊出他的意见。"永不放弃！" "我很强壮！我有武器！我有武器！" "当世界发生变化时，你必须随之改变！"。这些和其他自我帮助的观点在书的结尾处被总结为36点清单。"恐慌淹没了思想"；"发脾气永远没有用"；"重要的不是失败，而是你如何恢复"。而最关键的是："你能制作的最重要的东西是你自己"。我猜想，这是布鲁克斯真正赢得他的金色官方产品徽章的地方：他在写游戏的道歉书，将《Minecraft》的基本生存循环--结合材料、建造房屋、敲打怪物、重复--作为一套对现实世界有启发的生活课程。

这很可能是游戏玩家喜欢看到自己的方式，但如果你曾经读过一本不是关于《Minecraft》的小说，这本书就会让你的灵魂受到伤害。人物、情节和对话随风而逝，只留下布鲁克斯对玩电子游戏的无休止的高保真报告--雷击术--重复，雷击术--重复--加上近乎无限的励志语录的盐。到了一半的时候，我对《2001年：太空漫游》中那台可怜的电脑有了新的、生动的同情，看着它的记忆库和高级功能被一个一个地拆解。

我不认为我是唯一一个有这种感觉的人，但我是Minecraft的外国人，是那些把它当作视频游戏（而且，确实是一个令人愉快的游戏）但不是生活方式的人之一。然而，这相当于在Minecraft共和国持旅游签证旅行。要享受布鲁克斯的小说，我认为你必须是那种想从你正在玩的游戏中休息一下，在YouTube上看别人玩的那种人。你需要发现，这本书如此完美地再现了你自己在网络世界中的经历，同时将你在虚拟空间中的旅程作为生活本身的入门课程，这让你感到安慰。你可能还需要偶尔想一想，玩Minecraft的时候，是否有人可以用Minecraft的工具在Minecraft中编程，这样你就可以在玩Minecraft的时候玩Minecraft。如果你读了这一切，有一个颤抖的认可...你好。我认为有越来越多的你的一天。

Minecraft: 马克斯-布鲁克斯的《岛》现已出版，由企鹅兰登书屋出版。