脏鸽子演讲

中文

脏鸽子求情书》是1899年在俄克拉荷马州伍德沃德市由律师坦普尔-莱亚-休斯顿（Temple Lea Houston）代表一名妓女米妮-斯泰西（Minnie Stacey）发表的演讲。这名被指控的妓女被安排在某天早上以卖淫罪受审，法官发现她既没有律师也没有钱。休斯顿同意为她辩护，并即兴发表了《被玷污的鸽子》演讲，也被称为《为堕落的女人辩护》（"被玷污的鸽子 "一词是19世纪对妓女的委婉说法[1]）。它被许多审判律师认为是完美的结案陈词。全由男性组成的陪审团一到陪审室就以一致的裁决宣告被告无罪。

演讲内容如下。

"陪审团的先生们。你们听到了控方以多么冷酷的态度提到了这个女人的罪过，仿佛她的状况是她自己选择的。证据已经向你们描绘了她的生活和周围环境。你认为这些是她自己选择的吗？你认为她是自愿接受如此令人厌恶和可怕的生活吗？啊，不！先生们，我们中的一个人是她毁灭的始作俑者，比她更应该受到谴责。

那么让我们温和地评判她吧。还有什么能比她所呈现的景象更可悲的呢？一个不朽的灵魂被毁了! 在她少女的额头上曾经闪耀的纯洁之星，燃烧的耻辱已经在她身上盖上了印记，而且是永远。而就在刚才，他们还责备她所沉沦的深度，责备她的同伴，责备她所过的生活。现在，她还剩下什么？她能去哪里，而她的罪又不会追赶她？先生们，上帝的应许被她否定了。他说。"凡劳苦担重担的人，可以到我这里来，我就使你们得安息。" 她的确是在劳苦，而且负重，但如果此时此刻她跪在我们所有人面前，向她的救主忏悔，恳求他的温柔怜悯，哪里有教会愿意接受她呢？即使他们接受了她，当她经过大门去做礼拜和要求休息时，迎接她的将是蔑视和嘲弄；那些她遇到的人将更加紧密地聚集在他们的精神周围，以避免她的接触的污染。而你能告诉我一个她能实现 "赐给我们日用饮食 "的工作吗？

我们的性别破坏了她曾经纯洁的生活。她自己的性别对她退避三舍，就像对瘟疫一样。社会对她竖起了无情的高墙，只有在坟墓的友好庇护下，她被背叛的、破碎的心才能找到救世主应许的安息。

他们告诉你她的假名，就像墙上的影子一样转瞬即逝，告诉你她的罪孽，她的习惯，但他们从未告诉你她的悲伤，谁能告诉你她的心，尽管它可能是有罪的，现在是什么感觉？当她记忆中的母亲和姐妹的声音--她在这个世界上再也见不到她们了--再次像音乐一样落在她错误的灵魂上，她祈求上帝，她只能回来，而不能--不能--今生，因为引诱者已经摧毁了灵魂。

你知道浪子的故事，但他是个儿子。他是我们中的一员，就像她的破坏者一样；但对于浪子的女儿来说，是无法返回的。如果她带着枯槁的身躯和流血的双脚，拖着疲惫的身躯回到家中，她，这个堕落和迷失的人，她会受到怎样的欢迎？哦，当你们来决定她的罪行时，请考虑这一点，因为她就在我们面前，我们必须审判她。他们（检方）对她嗤之以鼻，嘲笑她。我们应该尊重她的悲痛，我告诉你们，现在她忏悔和受责备的精神上有一种荒凉，没有人，不，没有人，但所有心灵的搜索者可以知道。

我们没有人是完全邪恶的，我记得1878年红花之灾席卷孟菲斯市时，那里的一位歌妓敞开了她那镀金的罪恶宫殿的大门，接纳受难者，当收割者的镰刀快速而无情地挥舞时，她像天使一样在传教。死亡在她的仁慈中召唤她，她去加入那些她试图拯救的人。她和那些被主赦免的人一样，是个罪人，但我相信，在清算的日子里，她的审判将比那些要起诉并试图将她这样的可怜的不幸者赶出地球的人轻。

他们希望对这个女人进行罚款，让她离开。他们希望从她的耻辱的工资中榨取这种蓄意的不公正的代价；从她身上拿走她可能拥有的一点钱--上帝知道，先生们，这已经很不容易了。古老的犹太律法告诉你们，狗的价格，或者像她这样的雇佣，都不应该进入主的殿堂，我告诉你们，我们的正义，恰恰象征着这个女人的形式，并不要求你们增加这个不幸的人的痛苦，他们只要求在你们手中获得被单独留下的可怜的特权。

主人在地球上时，当他对国王和统治者发表愤怒和责备时，从未责备过其中的一个。他宽恕了一个人。另一个被他赦免了。你们都记得，现在看着这个没有朋友的弃儿，如果你们中有人能对她说，在她被指控犯罪的方面，'我比你圣洁'，他是谁？把这个女人带到救主面前的犹太人，两千年来一直被扣押着处决。我总是尊重他们。一个能像他们那样屈服于良心的责备的人，他的内心是善良的，但现代的伪君子却没有这种顾虑。如果你们审判的那个女人的检察官把她带到救世主面前，他们会接受他的挑战，每个人都收集一块石头，在眨眼之间用石头砸她。不，先生们，在你们周围同样的情况下，就像你们的主人两次那样做吧。告诉她，让她和平地去吧。"[2] 。

The Soiled Dove Plea was a speech delivered by the attorney Temple Lea Houston on behalf of a prostitute, Minnie Stacey, in 1899 in Woodward, Oklahoma. The accused prostitute was scheduled to be tried for prostitution one morning and the judge discovered she had neither attorney nor money. Houston agreed to defend her and delivered extemporaneously the Soiled Dove speech also known as the Plea for a Fallen Woman (the term "soiled dove" is a 19th century euphemism for a prostitute[1]). It is considered by many trial attorneys to be the perfect closing argument. The all-male jury acquitted the accused by unanimous verdict as soon as they reached the jury room.

The speech was as follows:

"Gentlemen of the jury: You heard with what cold cruelty the prosecution referred to the sins of this woman, as if her condition were of her own preference. The evidence has painted you a picture of her life and surroundings. Do you think that they were embraced of her own choosing? Do you think that she willingly embraced a life so revolting and horrible? Ah, no! Gentlemen, one of our own sex was the author of her ruin, more to blame than she.

Then let us judge her gently. What could be more pathetic than the spectacle she presents? An immortal soul in ruin! Where the star of purity once glittered on her girlish brow, burning shame has set its seal and forever. And only a moment ago, they reproached her for the depths to which she had sunk, the company she kept, the life she led. Now, what else is left her? Where can she go and her sin not pursue her? Gentlemen, the very promises of God are denied her. He said: "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest." She has indeed labored, and is heavily laden, but if, at this instant she were to kneel before us all and confess to her Redeemer and beseech His tender mercies, where is the church that would receive her? And even if they accepted her, when she passed the portals to worship and to claim her rest, scorn and mockery would greet her; those she met would gather around them their spirits the more closely to avoid the pollution of her touch. And would you tell me a single employment where she can realize "Give us our daily bread?"

Our sex wrecked her once pure life. Her own sex shrink from her as they would the pestilence. Society has reared its relentless walls against her, and only in the friendly shelter of the grave can her betrayed and broken heart ever find the Redeemer's promised rest.

They told you of her assumed names, as fleeting as the shadows on the walls, of her sins, her habits, but they never told you of her sorrows, and who shall tell what her heart, sinful though it may be, now feels? When the remembered voices of mother and sisters, whom she must see no more on this earth, fall again like music on her erring soul, and she prays God that she could only return, and must not—no—not in this life, for the seducer has destroyed the soul.

You know the story of the prodigal son, but he was a son. He was one of us, like her destroyers; but for the prodigal daughter there is no return. Were she with her wasted form and bleeding feet to drag herself back to home, she, the fallen and the lost, which would be her welcome? Oh, consider this when you come to decide her guilt, for she is before us and we must judge her. They (the prosecution) sneer and scoff at her. One should respect her grief, and I tell you that there reigns over her penitent and chastened spirit a desolation now that none, no, none but the Searcher of all hearts can ever know.

None of us are utterly evil, and I remember that when the Saffron Scourge swept over the city of Memphis in 1878, a courtesan there opened wide the doors of her gilded palace of sin to admit the sufferers, and when the scythe of the Reaper swung fast and pitiless, she was angelic in her ministering. Death called her in the midst of her mercies, and she went to join those she tried to save. She, like those the Lord forgave, was a sinner, and yet I believe that in the days of reckoning her judgment will be lighter than those who would prosecute and seek to drive off the earth such poor unfortunates as her whom you are to judge.

They wish to fine this woman and make her leave. They wish to wring from the wages of her shame the price of this meditated injustice; to take from her the little money she might have—and God knows, gentlemen, it came hard enough. The old Jewish law told you that the price of a dog, nor the hire of such as she, should come not within the house of the Lord, and I say unto you that our justice, fitly symbolized by this woman's form, does not ask that you add to the woes of this unhappy one, one only asks at your hands the pitiful privilege of being left alone.

The Master, while on Earth, while He spake in wrath and rebuke to the kings and rulers, never reproached one of these. One he forgave. Another he acquitted. You remember both—and now looking upon this friendless outcast, if any of you can say to her, 'I am holier than thou' in the respect which she is charged with sinning, who is he? The Jews who brought the woman before the Savior have been held up to execution for two thousand years. I always respected them. A man who will yield to the reproaches of his conscience as they did has the element of good in him, but the modern hypocrite has no such compunctions. If the prosecutors of the woman whom you are trying had brought her before the Savior, they would have accepted His challenge and each one gathered a rock and stoned her, in the twinkling of an eye. No, Gentlemen, do as your Master did twice under the same circumstances that surround you. Tell her to go in peace."[2]