Since much of the film is narrated by Forrest, you should be careful to not internalize the ungrammatical aspects of his personal way of speaking. Aside from the obvious use of "double-negatives",

Forrest also tends to conjugate the past tense of "to be" incorrectly, saying "we was" instead of "we were".

Forrest arrives in town to see Jenny, and soon tells the story of his life to anyone who happens to be on the bus stop bench...

I'll bet you can walk all day in shoes like that and never feel anything.

A common way to say "I'm sure that..."

His back is as crooked as a politician.

A good play on words: "Crooked" can mean marked by bends or curves, but it also means corrupt and dishonest.

What are you all staring at?

In the Southern United States, "you all" operates as a form of "you", but note that it is always pronounced "ya'all".

He has braces on his legs.

A clamp or brace that hold two or more pieces together.

Green Bough, Alabama

The County and State where Forrest grew up.

Alabama

Is in the "deep South" of the United States.

Mama decided to let those rooms out.

A rather British way to say "rent out".

2. LANGUAGE

Since much of the film is narrated by Forrest, you should be careful to not internalize the ungrammatical aspects of his personal way of speaking. Aside from the obvious use of "double-negatives",

Forrest also tends to conjugate the past tense of "to be" incorrectly, saying "we was" instead of "we were".

Forrest arrives in town to see Jenny, and soon tells the story of his life to anyone who happens to be on the bus stop bench...

I'll bet you can walk all day in shoes like that and never feel anything.

A common way to say "I'm sure that..."

His back is as crooked as a politician.

A good play on words: "Crooked" can mean marked by bends or curves, but it also means corrupt and dishonest.

What are you all staring at?

In the Southern United States, "you all" operates as a form of "you", but note that it is always pronounced "ya'all".

He has braces on his legs.

A clamp or brace that hold two or more pieces together.

Green Bough, Alabama

The County and State where Forrest grew up.

Alabama

Is in the "deep South" of the United States.

Mama decided to let those rooms out.

A rather British way to say "rent out".

Your boy is different: His lQ_is 75.

"Intelligence Quotient", which is the standard test to measure a person's intelligence. An IQ of 100 is considered normal, which means that Forrest has an IQ which may be close to "retarded", or as some people say nowadays, "mentally challenged".

He might be a bit on the slow side. "He might be a little dumb."

He's not going to a special school to retread tires!

A "tread" is the outer covering of a tire, and thus to "retread a tire" is to put a new covering on the tire.

Me and mama was on our own..

"We had to be responsible for ourselves, since no one else would take care of us."

There were always folks coming and going.

"Folks" is a very Southern way to say people. It can also mean parents.

He had him a guitar case.

Ungrammatical Southern English: Note the use of the object pronoun "him" after the verb "had". Avoid this grammatical construction.

It must be hard being a king.

EMs Presley became famous as "The King of Rock'n'Roll".

On the way to school, Forrest meets the most beautiful girl he had ever seen, or ever would.

Mama said to not to be taking rides from strangers.

An important noun, and the one you use when you want a friend to drive you somewhere: "Can I get a ride?"

"Stupid is as stupid does."

An expression that became famous because of this movie,

meaning "Just because you look stupid, you're not stupid unless you do stupid things."

I showed her how to dangle.

To dangle is to hang loosely, or swing gently back and

forth. Children may dangle from a swing on a tree branch, , but also note that a plan may dangle, until somebody takes action.

.. *

Forrest runs from the local bullies, and soon learns he can run like the wind...

Jenny would sneak out and come to my house.

"To sneak out" is a useful phrasal verb meaning to leave secretly. Note that the past tense is "snuck out".

Let's move it!

A common alternative to "Let's go!" Often said by a person with power or authority, such as a teacher or coach.

While in college, Forrest finds himself involved in a world going through great social changes, as Jenny prepares to follow her dreams.

Coons, Niggers.

Very crude racist insults referring to blacks.

The University of Alabama had been desegregated.

"To desegregate" is to end the legal separation that exists.

It was coed,

Short for co-educational. It usually refers to a school meaning that both males and females are present.

I want to be a singer like Joan_Baez.

A famous American folk singer who sang songs about injustice, war and other social issues.

I want to reach people on a personal level.

This means that she wants her songs to touch people emotionally.

Girls? I sit next to them in home economics class all the time.

A class in high school where students learn such practical things as cooking and managing personal finances.

I'm dizzy.

Dizzy - the sensation a person gets after spinning around too fast.

Forrest meets his first US President, and then soon after, finds himself in the US Army with his new friend, Bubba.

The Collegiate All-American football team.

The team created at the end of each year that has the best football players from every college. They often get to visit the White House.

It was my induction day and I was already getting yelled at. The first day upon entering an organization. In this case, the US army.

Have you ever been on a shrimping boat?

A boat used primarily for catching shrimp.

I was looking to buy a boat on my own and then I got drafted.

If you are drafted, you are forced by the government to enter into the army or other armed forces.

People call me Bubba. just like one of them redneck boys. "Bubba" is the stereotypical name for a "redneck", which is a common slang word for a crude and uneducated person. The stereotype often includes a person who is racist, sexist and likes guns, trucks and beer.

Whatever you tell me, Drill Sergeant!

The army officer in charge of training new soldiers.

You're god damn gifted!

"Gifted" is a complimentary adjective for intelligent, or born with great ability or talent. However, note that "god damn" is a crude but common way of expressing emotion such as anger (which suggests that the entire phrase is

sarcastic).

I fit in the army like one of those round pegs.

"I fit in the army well" (A round peg is a small pin used to

plug a hole. The opposite of "fitting in" is to be "a square peg in around hole").

Jesus H. Christ... I'd recommend you to OCS.

For some reason, the middle initiallhat is often used when

people say "Jesus Christ" to express various emotions. The OCS was a division of the army.

You can boil, broil, saute... They're deep fried, stir fried... Shrimp kabob, Creole, Gumbo, stew, salad, burgers.

Bubba's list of the various ways you can cook shrimp, and ways shrimp can be served. Creole and Gumbo are types of spicy soup that are popular in the South.

We lay there in our bunks.

A narrow bed, used in places like army barracks, which are buildings used to house soldiers.

enny goes off to live her dream as a folk singer, and

Forrest goes off to the Vietnam War.

Our very own beatnik beauty: Let's give a round of applause to the luscious Bobbie Dylan!

A "beatnik" was a type of writer or artist in the 1950s who rejected traditional American society (They were a type of early hippie or bohemian who were known to discuss philosophy in cafes, and were often associated with Jazz and drugs). "Luscious" is an adjective for seductive, or perhaps pleasant to the senses. Bob Dylan is a folk singer who became very famous in the 1960s.

Hang on a minute.

Another way to say "wait".

You better tuck that in or you'll get it caught in a trip wire.

"To tuck in" is to fold underneath, as in to tuck in the sheets of a bed. (Here, Lieutenant Dan is referring to the fact that Bubba's lips are so big). A "trip wire" is a hidden wire that when touched, causes a bomb or mine to explode.

There is one item of G.I, gear that makes the difference between a good and dead grunt - socks.

A "G.L" is a solider, the abbreviation stands for "general infantry". "Gear"referstoequipmentsuchasclothes,helmets, guns, etc. A "grunt" is a very slangy term for a solider.

The V. Cong.

The "Vietcong", who were South Vietnamese guerrillas fighting the US military. A "guerrilla" is a solider who often

hides in the jungle.

He had a lot to live up to.

If you have parents or other family members that have accomplished a lot and people expect you to do the same, then this expression applies to you.

Forrest learns the horror of war: he loses one Mend, but saves another.

Two standing orders in this platoon.

A "standing order" is an order that is always in force and therefore does not need to be repeated. A "platoon" is a group of soldiers.

I sure hope I don't let him down.

"To let someone down" is to disappoint them.

We were always looking for this guy named Charley.

"Charley company" was a reference to the Vietcong

soldiers fighting the Americans.

We got Charley all over this area.

"The army has lots of soldiers all around here."

He was always getting funny feelings.

In this case, suspicions that the enemy was near by.

Check out that hole.

"To check out" something is a phrasal verb meaning to investigate.

Rain that flew in sideways.

From one side (as opposed to from the top, or from the sky).

We're a good partnership. We £e watching out for each other. Note that in the grammar of Black English, the progressive tense ("we are watching...") is constructed with the base of the verb ("We be watching").

Mayday! Pull back! Run, god damn it!

"Mayday" is a military and navigational expression meaning

"Help!", or "Emergency!" "To pull back" is a phrasal verb meaning retreat.

Bubba was my best good friend. I had to make sure he was OK.

Note that the correct phrase is simply "my best friend".

I grabbed him up and run him out of there.

"To grab" is to seize suddenly, usually with your hands. "To run somebody out of some place" usually means to chase them out, but in this case, it means to carry them out in order to save them.

The whole god damn platoon is wiped out.

"To wipe out" something is a phrasal verb which means to destroy it.

They're going to nape the whole area!

"Nape" is short for -napalm", the poison gas that the US army used in Vietnam to destroy the Vietnamese jungles.

I want to go to heaven... That isn't something you can find just

around the corner.

If something is available "just around the corner", this means that it will be easy to find.

Forrest returns to America as a war hero, but Lieutenant Dan is not even sure he wants to return.

Never take your eyes off the ball.

An expression meaning "always pay careful attention".

Ping Pong made me look like a duck in water.

To be "like a duck in water" is to look totally natural.

I'm nothing but a legless freak.

A strong wor&meaning a very abnormal or deformed person.

You cheated me! I had a destiny.

A predetermined course of events, or fate, beyond human control.

I was supposed to die in the fields with honor. You cheated me out of it.

"With honor" became critical words to American politicians in the 1960s: President Nixon said he wanted peace, but only "with, honor." Honor is another word for respect or dignity.

You've been awarded the Medal of Honor.

The Congressional Medal of Honor is awarded to soldiers for great courage.

A candid speech on the need for escalation of the war in Vietnam. "Candid" is a way to say completely honest or frank. In a military context, "escalation" is another word for expansion or increase. This is a reference to a speech by President

Johnson, who was rarely candid about the Vietnam War.

Forrest goes to Washington, and finds a nation in turmoil. He also finds Jenny.

Some of these people were loud and pushy.

An adjective meaning aggressive, or too assertive.

For some reason, they'd cheer. •>

An expression implying that it's not clear why something was done.

That's right on. man. You said it all!

"Right on" is a very 60s (old-fashioned!) way to say great, or more colloquially, cool. "You said it all" is a useful little expression meaning "You said everything that needs to be said."

Were here to protect our black leaders from the racial onslaught of the pigs.

Radical rhetoric: An "onslaught" is a violent attack, and a "pig" is a very insulting but not uncommon way to refer to the police.

Who's the baby killer?

In the 1960s, those opposed to the Vietnam War might use this term to describe anyone from President Johnson to individual soldiers.

He's the President of the Berkeley Chapter of SDS.

The "Students for a Democratic Society", a widely active political group in the 1960s. Many groups have local "chapters", and most political organizations had a chapter in Berkeley, California, which is home to the University of California at Berkeley.

Yes, we are against any war that brutalizes our black soldiers. "To brutalize" is a very powerful verb meaning to treat very cruelly.

I should have known it was just going to be a bullshit hassle.

A "hassle" is an extremely useful word for trouble, or a problem. Although "bullshit" is usually a crude noun for lies or nonsense, note that here it functions as an adjective.

That uniform is atrip. Forrest.

To say that something is "a trip" is a very slangy way to say that it is unusual or interesting.

Things got a little out of hand.

Very common: If something "gets out of hand", it is no longer easy to control the situation.

That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.

The famous words of Neil Armstrong, who said this when he became the first man to step on the moon.

I was in special services.

This can refer to several types of forces within the US military, though it probably refers to some kind of secret spying organization.

Lieutenant Dan begins to make peace with his destiny, and with Forrest

When I got home, I was a national celebrity, more famous than Captain Kangaroo.

A "celebrity" is a famous person. "Captain Kangaroo" was a famous character on television who taught children.

They gave you - an imbecile, a moron who makes a fool of himself on national TV - The Congressional Medal of Honor.

"Imbecile" is a strong word for a very stupid person. ,

That's all these cripples down at the VA ever talk about "Cripple" is an insulting and dated term for a person who is physically handicapped. The "VA" refers to the Veteran's

Administration, or to the hospitals that the VA runs.

Ripple.

A brand name of hard liquor.

He'll be the captain and I'll be his first mate.

In a navy context, this is the head assistant to the captain of the ship.

Now hear this, Private Gump!

A Private is the lowest rank in the army (below Sergeant).

Lieutenant Dan figured there's some things you just can't change. "To figure" is a colloquial and common way to say think. "To figure out" is a related phrasal verb meaning to understand.

You might want to send a maintenance man across the way. The lights are out but they're using flashlights that are keeping me awake. The "maintenance man" in a building takes care of things like the heat, lights, etc. In this scene, Forrest is referring

to men who are using flashlights in the Watergate Hotel,

which, of course, is a reference to the break-in at that

hotel which eventually led to the entire Watergate scandal.

Forrest leaves the army, buys a Shrimp Boat in order to keep his promise to Bubba, and then gets very lucky with Lieutenant Dan.

Your discharge papers. Your service is up.

Papers that officially terminate your service in an organization.

For $25,000, you can use it and see if it grows on you.

If something "grows on you", it means that you begin to like it.

Are you crazy or just plain stupid?

An adverb meaning "simply", that can add a sense of disbelief and cynicism to the speaker's voice.

I paid my respects to Bubba himself.

"To pay one's respects" to somebody is to honor their memory, and it is often used in the context of visiting their grave.

Everyone knew it wasn't true: It was just a little white lie. An expression for a lie that is basically harmless.

Shrimping is tough.

Any business that is "tough" means that it's difficult, and

hard to make money in.

I only caught five shrimp. Enough for a cocktail.

A "shrimp cocktail" is a glass full of shrimp and (usually) a tomato based §auce.

I thought I'd try out my sea legs.

"To try out" something is good phrasal verb meaning to test, or to see if it works well.

f'll be your first mate. I am a man of my word,

A very formal way to say "I keep my promises".

He left the praying up to me.

Toleavesomething"upto"somebodyistoletthem taki care of it.

Right then, God showed up.

"To show up" is a very common phrasal verb meaning to arrive.

The entire shipping industry has fallen victim to Hurricane Carmen. A vague way to say destroyed. (You could also say that the industry was "victimized by...")

Bubba-Gump Shrimp: It's a household name.

An expression that means widely known, or in fact so famous that it is known in most homes.

I've heard some stories, but that tops them all.

Here, meaning "That's the most incredible story I've ever heard."

He is indisposed at the moment.

If someone is "indisposed", this means that they are not available. (Often said when a person does not want to come to the phone or door.)

Forrest returns home to be with Mama.

We sure got you straightened out, didn't we, boy?

"To straighten out" somebody can mean to help them intellectually or emotionally, but here it might also imply physically, since Forrest had a very crooked back as a child that needed to be straightened.

Death is part of life. Something we're all destined to do.

If a person is "destined" to do something, this means that it is certain that they will do it some time in the future.

Hegotmeinvestedinsomekindoffruitcompany.

A classic misunderstanding by Forrest: Lieutenant Dan invested the money that Forrest and he made with the shrimp boats in Apple Computer Company, a legendary American corporation that helped create the personal

computer business in the late 1970s.

i

Even though Bubba Was dead and Lieutenant Dan said I was

nuts, I gave his mom Bubba's share.

If somebody is^nuts", they're crazy. In this case, his "share" refers to the share or part of the company that Bubba would have owned if he had lived.

Jenny returns to be with Forrest, only to leave again, and thus Forrest begins his cross-country journey to discover the meaning of life.

I would jabber on like a monkey in a tree.

A way to say talk rapidly, and in an unclear way.

She gave me the best gift in the wide world.

"The best gift in the whole wide world" is a set phrase using the superlative grammatical construction, often used by little kids.

Where are you running off to?

"To run off to" somewhere simply means to go.

I ran clear across Alabama.

An unnecessary but stylistic adverb meaning "completely".

I figured I might as well just keep on going.

A common way to say "all things considered, I should..."

It was like an alarm went off in my head: Here's somebody who has got his act together.

If an "alarm goes off in your head", you may have just thought of something incredibly significant. Somebody who has "got his act together" is someone who is essentially living their life well while making a positive contribution to either themselves, their friends or the community.

I'm in the bumper sticker business. Can you think of any slogans? A bumper sticker is the little sign that people put on the back of their cars (on the "bumper"), that often has a clever slogan. A "slogan" is a short phrase expressing a political or commercial opinion, such as "Question authority."

Have a nice day.

A common cliche from the 1970s, that became so overused that people often grew irritated when hearing it. This phrase is seen on posters and T-shirts with a smiling face.

Mama said you have to put the past behind you before you could move on.

More Gump family wisdom: You must accept the past before you look to the future.

One day out of the clear blue sky...

If something happens "out of the blue", it happens suddenly and unexpectedly.

Forrest and Jenny reunite for the iast time. Forrest soon suffers his greatest sadness, and receives his greatest gift...

I kept a scrapbook of your clippings.

A "scrapbook" is a personal book of memories, photographs, articles and so on. "Clippings" refer to

newspaper clippings, which are a group of specific

articles about someone or something.

I was messed up for a long time.

A common colloquial way to say troubled, or doing poorly.

I have got to go. I'm double parked.

When a car is "double parked", it is parked illegally, often in the middle of the street.

I have some kind of virus. The doctors don't know what it is.

An important word in biology: A type of tiny parasite or bacteria that often causes 0isease in people. In this case, the virus is a subtle reference to the AIDS virus (HIV), which appeared in the United States in the early 1980s.

I have custom made legs made of titanium alloy.

Anything that is "custom-made" is made specifically for one person (as opposed to being mass produced).

"Titanium alloy" is a type of very strong metal, used in things like rockets and other machines.

It was like before the sun goes down to bed on the bayou.

The place where a river enters into a large body of water, such as a lake or ocean.

I don't know if we each have a destiny or if were just floating around accidental-like, on a breeze.

"Floating around accidental-like on a breeze" is Forrest's way of expressing a bit of existential philosophy: To float without a particular direction, in a universe not of our making, for no particular reason...

I'm going to show that at show and tell.

"Show and tell" is the part of class time where small children bring things from their houses in order to discuss it with their fellow class mates.


由于影片的大部分内容是由福雷斯特叙述的，你应该注意不要把他个人说话方式中不符合语法的地方内化。除了明显地使用 "双重否定词 "外。

福瑞斯特还倾向于将 "to be "的过去式连接起来，说 "we was "而不是 "we were"。

福瑞斯特来到镇上看望珍妮，并很快向碰巧在公共汽车站长椅上的人讲述了他的生活故事......

我敢打赌，你可以穿着这样的鞋子走一整天，而且永远不会有任何感觉。

一种常见的说法是 "我敢肯定......"

他的背像政治家一样歪歪扭扭。

一个很好的文字游戏。"弯曲 "可以指以弯曲或曲线为标志，但也意味着腐败和不诚实。

你们都在盯着什么？

在美国南部，"你们这些人 "作为 "你们 "的一种形式运作，但请注意，它总是读作 "ya'all"。

他的腿上有支架。

将两件或多件物品固定在一起的夹子或支架。

阿拉巴马州的绿枝花

福雷斯特成长的县和州。

阿拉巴马州

位于美国的 "南方深处"。

妈妈决定把这些房间租出去。

这是一种相当英式的 "出租 "说法。

2. 语言

由于影片的大部分内容是由福雷斯特叙述的，你应该注意不要把他个人说话方式中不符合语法的部分内化。除了明显地使用 "双关语 "外，福雷斯特还倾向于使用连接词。

福瑞斯特还倾向于将 "to be "的过去式连接起来，说 "we was "而不是 "we were"。

福瑞斯特来到镇上看望珍妮，并很快向碰巧在公共汽车站长椅上的人讲述了他的生活故事......

我敢打赌，你可以穿着这样的鞋子走一整天，而且永远不会有任何感觉。

一种常见的说法是 "我敢肯定......"

他的背像政治家一样歪歪扭扭。

一个很好的文字游戏。"弯曲 "可以指以弯曲或曲线为标志，但也意味着腐败和不诚实。

你们都在盯着什么？

在美国南部，"你们这些人 "作为 "你们 "的一种形式运作，但请注意，它总是读作 "ya'all"。

他的腿上有支架。

将两件或多件物品固定在一起的夹子或支架。

阿拉巴马州的绿枝花

福雷斯特成长的县和州。

阿拉巴马州

位于美国的 "南方深处"。

妈妈决定把这些房间租出去。

这是一种相当英式的 "出租 "说法。

你的孩子与众不同：他的lQ_是75。

"智商"，这是衡量一个人智力的标准测试。智商为100被认为是正常的，这意味着福瑞斯特的智商可能接近 "弱智"，或者像现在一些人所说的 "精神障碍"。

他可能有点偏于缓慢。"他可能有点笨"。

他不会去专门的学校去翻新轮胎吧!

胎面 "是轮胎的外层，因此，"翻新轮胎 "就是在轮胎上加一层新的覆盖层。

我和妈妈是靠自己。

"我们必须对自己负责，因为没有人愿意照顾我们"。

总是有乡亲们来来往往。

"乡亲 "是南方人对人的一种称呼。它也可以指父母。

他给他准备了一个吉他盒。

不合语法的南方英语。注意在动词 "了 "的后面使用了宾语代词 "他"。避免这种语法结构。

做一个国王一定很困难。

EMs Presley以 "摇滚之王 "而闻名。

在去学校的路上，福雷斯特遇到了他所见过的最漂亮的女孩，也是他将会见到的最漂亮的女孩。

妈妈说不要搭陌生人的车。

这是一个重要的名词，当你想让朋友载你去某个地方时，你就会用这个名词。"我能搭车吗？"

"愚蠢的人就是愚蠢的人"。

一个因这部电影而成名的说法。

意思是 "仅仅因为你看起来很蠢，你就不蠢，除非你做蠢事"。

我向她展示了如何悬空。

悬空是指松散地悬挂，或轻轻地来回摆动。

来回摆动。孩子们可能会从树枝上的秋千上垂下来， ，但也要注意，一个计划可能会垂下来，直到有人采取行动。

.. *

福瑞斯特从当地的恶霸那里跑出来，很快就知道他可以像风一样地跑。

珍妮会偷偷溜出去，到我家来。

"溜出去 "是一个有用的短语动词，意思是秘密地离开。注意，过去式是 "溜走"。

让我们动起来吧!

是 "我们走吧！"的常见替代词。通常由有权力或权威的人说，如老师或教练。

在大学期间，福雷斯特发现自己卷入了一个正在经历巨大社会变革的世界，因为珍妮正准备追寻她的梦想。

浣熊，黑鬼。

指代黑人的非常粗俗的种族主义侮辱。

阿拉巴马大学已经取消了种族隔离。

"取消隔离 "是指结束存在的法律隔离。

它是男女同校。

男女同校的简称。它通常指的是一所学校，意味着男性和女性都在场。

我想成为像Joan_Baez那样的歌手。

一位著名的美国民谣歌手，她演唱了关于不公正、战争和其他社会问题的歌曲。

我想在个人层面上接触人们。

这意味着她希望她的歌曲能触动人们的情感。

女孩？我在家政课上一直坐在她们旁边。

高中的一门课，学生在那里学习诸如烹饪和管理个人财务等实用的东西。

我头晕了。

晕--一个人在转得太快之后的感觉。

福雷斯特遇到了他的第一位美国总统，然后很快发现自己和他的新朋友布巴一起在美国军队中。

高校全美足球队。

每年年底创建的团队，拥有来自每个大学的最佳足球运动员。他们经常能访问白宫。

这是我入职的日子，我已经被骂了。进入一个组织后的第一天。在这种情况下，美国军队。

你曾经坐过捕虾船吗？

一条主要用于捕虾的船。

我本来想自己买一艘船，然后我被征召了。

如果你被征召，你就会被政府强迫进入军队或其他武装力量。

人们叫我布巴。就像他们中的一个红脖子男孩。"布巴 "是 "乡巴佬 "的定型名称，这是一个常见的俚语，指的是粗俗和没有受过教育的人。这种刻板印象往往包括一个有种族主义、性别歧视和喜欢枪支、卡车和啤酒的人。

随你怎么说吧，操练士官!

负责训练新兵的军队官员。

你真他妈的有天赋！"。

"天赋 "是一个褒义的形容词，指的是聪明，或生来就有巨大的能力或天赋。然而，请注意，"该死的 "是一种粗俗但常见的表达情绪的方式，如愤怒（这表明整个短语是

讽刺）。)

我在军队里就像那些圆钉子一样合适。

"我很适合在军队里工作"（圆钉是一个小针，用来塞住一个洞。

堵住一个洞。融入 "的反义词是 "方枘圆凿"）。)

上帝啊......。我推荐你去OCS。

由于某些原因，当人们说 "耶稣基督 "时，经常使用中间的启齿。

人们说 "耶稣基督 "时，经常用它来表达各种情绪。OCS是军队的一个部门。

你可以煮、烧、炒... 可以油炸，可以炒菜... 烤虾、克里奥尔、秋葵、炖肉、沙拉、汉堡。

布巴列举了各种煮虾的方法，以及虾的食用方法。克里奥尔和秋葵是在南方流行的辣汤类型。

我们躺在那里的床铺上。

一张狭窄的床，用在军队营房等地方，这些地方是用来安置士兵的建筑。

恩尼去实现她作为民谣歌手的梦想，而

福雷斯特去参加越南战争了。

我们自己的拍档美女。让我们以热烈的掌声欢迎美丽的波比-迪伦！"。

beatnik "是20世纪50年代一种拒绝美国传统社会的作家或艺术家（他们是早期嬉皮士或波希米亚人的一种类型，以在咖啡馆讨论哲学而闻名，并经常与爵士乐和毒品联系在一起）。"Luscious "是一个形容词，指的是诱人的，或者说是令人愉悦的感官。鲍勃-迪伦是一位民谣歌手，在20世纪60年代变得非常有名。

稍等一下。

另一种说法是 "等等"。

你最好把它塞进去，否则你会被绊倒在电线上。

"塞进去 "是指折叠在下面，如塞进床单。(这里，丹中尉指的是巴布的嘴唇那么大）。) "绊线 "是一种隐藏的电线，一旦被触动，就会导致炸弹或地雷爆炸。

有一件G.I.装备使一个好的和死的步兵之间的区别 - 袜子。

G.L "是一个士兵，这个缩写代表 "普通步兵"。"装备 "是指衣服、头盔、枪支等装备。咕噜 "是对士兵的一个非常粗俗的称呼。

越共（V. Cong）。

越共"，是与美军作战的南越游击队。游击队 "是一个经常躲在丛林里的士兵。

躲在丛林里的士兵。

他有很多事情要做。

如果你的父母或其他家庭成员取得了很大的成就，人们期望你也能做到这一点，那么这个说法就适用于你。

福雷斯特了解到战争的恐怖：他失去了一个门德，却拯救了另一个门德。

这个排里有两个常备命令。

一个 "常备命令 "是一个始终有效的命令，因此不需要重复。一个 "排 "是一群士兵。

我当然希望我不会让他失望。

"让人失望 "就是让他们失望。

我们一直在寻找这个叫查理的人。

"查利连 "是指与美国人作战的越共

士兵与美国人作战。

我们在这个地区到处都有查利。

"军队有很多士兵都在这附近。"

他总是得到有趣的感觉。

在这种情况下，怀疑敌人就在附近。

检查一下那个洞。

"查看 "某物是一个短语动词，意思是调查。

从侧面飞来的雨。

从一侧（相对于从顶部，或从天空）。

我们是一个很好的合作伙伴。我们互相照应着对方。请注意，在黑人英语的语法中，渐进式（"我们在看......"）是用动词的基数构造的（"我们在看"）。

求救! 撤退！快跑，该死的!

"求救 "是一种军事和航海的表达方式，意思是

"帮助！"，或 "紧急情况！" "撤退 "是一个短语动词，意思是撤退。

布巴是我最好的好朋友。我必须确保他没事。

注意，正确的短语是 "我最好的朋友"。

我把他抓起来，把他赶出了那里。

"抓住 "是指突然抓住，通常是用手抓住。"把某人赶出某个地方 "通常是指把他们赶出去，但在这种情况下，是指为了救他们而把他们抬出去。

整个该死的排都被消灭了。

"歼灭 "某物是一个短语动词，意思是摧毁它。

他们要把整个地区都扼杀在摇篮里!

"Nape "是 "napalm "的简称，是美军在越南用来摧毁越南丛林的毒气。

我想去天堂... 这不是你能找到的东西，就在

拐角处。

如果某种东西 "就在拐角处"，这意味着它很容易找到。

福瑞斯特作为战争英雄回到美国，但丹中尉甚至不确定他是否愿意回来。

永远不要把目光从球上移开。

一句话，意思是 "总是仔细注意"。

乒乓球让我看起来像一只水中的鸭子。

像水里的鸭子 "是指看起来完全自然。

我只不过是一个没有腿的怪胎。

一个强有力的词，意思是一个非常不正常或畸形的人。

你欺骗了我! 我有一个命运。

一个预定的事件过程，或命运，超出人类的控制。

我本应光荣地死在田野上。你欺骗了我。

在20世纪60年代，"带着荣誉 "成为美国政治家们的关键词汇。尼克松总统说他想要和平，但只是 "带着荣誉"。荣誉是尊重或尊严的另一个词。

你被授予荣誉勋章。

国会荣誉勋章是颁发给有巨大勇气的士兵的。

关于越南战争升级的必要性的坦率演讲。"坦率 "是说完全诚实或坦率。在军事方面，"升级 "是扩张或增加的另一个词。这是指约翰逊总统的一次演讲。

约翰逊的演讲，他对越南战争很少坦诚。

福雷斯特去了华盛顿，发现这个国家处于动荡之中。他还发现了詹妮。

这些人中有的人很吵，很爱出风头。

一个形容词，意思是咄咄逼人，或太有主见。

出于某种原因，他们会欢呼。->

一种暗示不清楚为什么要做某事的表达方式。

这就对了。伙计。你都说了

"对极了 "是一种非常60年代（老式的！）的说法，表示很好，或者更口语化地表示很酷。"你都说了 "是一个有用的小说法，意思是 "你把该说的都说了"。

我们在这里是为了保护我们的黑人领袖免受猪猡的种族攻击。

激进的言辞。"冲击 "是指暴力攻击，"猪 "是一种非常侮辱性的但并不罕见的指称警察的方式。

谁是婴儿杀手？

在20世纪60年代，那些反对越南战争的人可能会用这个词来描述从约翰逊总统到个别士兵的任何人。

他是SDS伯克利分会的主席。

"学生争取民主社会"，是60年代一个广泛活跃的政治团体。许多团体都有当地的 "分会"，大多数政治组织在加州伯克利都有一个分会，伯克利是加州大学的所在地。

是的，我们反对任何残害我们黑人士兵的战争。"残暴化 "是一个非常有力的动词，意味着非常残酷地对待。

我早该知道这只是一个狗屁不通的麻烦。

"麻烦 "是一个非常有用的词，表示麻烦，或问题。虽然 "bullshit "通常是指谎言或废话的粗俗名词，但请注意这里它的功能是一个形容词。

那件制服是atrip。福雷斯特。

说一件事是 "一次旅行 "是一种非常粗俗的说法，表示它不寻常或有趣。

事情有点失控了。

非常常见：如果事情 "失控 "了，就不再容易控制局面了。

这是人的一小步，人类的一大步。

尼尔-阿姆斯特朗的名言，他在成为第一个踏上月球的人时说过这样的话。

我曾在特殊部门工作。

这可以指美国军队中的几种类型的部队，尽管它可能指的是某种秘密间谍组织。

丹中尉开始与他的命运和平相处，并与福雷斯特和平相处

当我回到家时，我是一个全国性的名人，比袋鼠船长还要有名。

名人 "是指著名的人。"袋鼠船长 "是电视上一个著名的人物，他教孩子。

他们给你--一个低能儿，一个在全国电视上出丑的白痴--颁发了国会荣誉勋章。

"低能儿 "是一个强烈的词，指的是一个非常愚蠢的人。,

这就是退伍军人事务部的这些瘸子们所谈论的。"瘸子 "是一个侮辱性的、过时的术语，指的是身体有残疾的人。VA "指的是退伍军人的

政府，或指VA经营的医院。

涟漪。

一种硬酒的品牌名称。

他当船长，我当大副。

在海军背景下，这是船长的首席助理。

现在请听我说，二等兵甘布！

二等兵是军队中最低的级别（低于中士）。

丹中尉认为有些事情你是无法改变的。"琢磨 "是一种口语化的、常见的表达方式。"弄明白 "是一个相关的短语动词，意思是理解。

你可能想派一个维修人员到对面去。灯灭了，但他们用的是手电筒，让我无法入睡。建筑物中的 "维修工 "负责处理诸如暖气、灯光等事务。在这个场景中，福雷斯特指的是

在这个场景中，福雷斯特指的是在水门酒店使用手电筒的人。

当然，这指的是在该酒店的闯入事件。

这当然是指该酒店的闯入事件，该事件最终导致了整个水门事件的丑闻。

福瑞斯特离开了军队，为了履行对巴布的承诺，他买了一艘虾船，然后在丹中尉那里得到了很好的运气。

你的退伍文件。你的服役期到了。

正式终止你在一个组织中的服务的文件。

25,000美元，你可以使用它，看看它是否在你身上成长。

如果一个东西 "在你身上成长"，这意味着你开始喜欢它。

你是疯了还是傻了？

一个副词，意思是 "简单"，可以给说话人的声音增加一种不相信和嘲讽的感觉。

我亲自向布巴致意。

对某人 "表示敬意 "是指对他们的记忆表示敬意，它经常被用在参观他们的坟墓上。

大家都知道这不是真的：这只是一个小小的白色谎言。对基本无害的谎言的一种表达。

捕虾很艰难。

任何 "艰难 "的生意都意味着它很难，而且很难赚钱。

很难挣钱。

我只抓了五只虾。足够做一杯鸡尾酒了。

鸡尾酒虾 "是一个装满虾和（通常）番茄酱的玻璃杯。

我想我要试一下我的海腿。

"试一试 "是一个很好的短语动词，意思是测试，或看看它是否好用。

我将成为你的大副。我是一个言出必行的人。

一个非常正式的说法是 "我遵守我的承诺"。

他把祈祷的事留给了我。

把事情交给某人，就是让他来处理。

就在那时，上帝出现了。

"出现 "是一个非常常见的短语动词，意思是到达。

整个航运业都成了卡门飓风的受害者。一个模糊的说法是被摧毁。(你也可以说这个行业是 "被......所害")

Bubba-Gump Shrimp：这是一个家喻户晓的名字。

一种表达方式，意思是广为人知，或者说事实上非常有名，在大多数家庭都知道。

我听说过一些故事，但这是最重要的。

这里，意思是 "这是我听过的最不可思议的故事"。

他此刻身体不适。

如果一个人 "不舒服"，这意味着他没有时间。(通常在一个人不愿意来接电话或开门时说)。

福瑞斯特回到家里和妈妈在一起。

我们肯定把你扶正了，不是吗，孩子？

"矫正 "某人可以指在智力上或情感上帮助他们，但在这里也可能意味着身体上的帮助，因为福雷斯特小时候有一个非常弯曲的背，需要被矫正。

死亡是生命的一部分。我们都注定要做的事。

如果一个人 "注定 "要做某事，这意味着他们肯定会在未来某个时候做这件事。

我投资了一家水果公司。

福雷斯特的一个典型误解。丹中尉把弗勒斯和他用捕虾船赚来的钱投资于苹果电脑公司，这是一家传奇性的美国公司，在1970年代末帮助创造了个人电脑业务。

一家传奇的美国公司，在20世纪70年代末帮助创造了个人电脑业务。

i

尽管布巴已经死了，丹中尉说我是

但我还是把布巴的那份给了他妈妈。

如果有人是疯子，他们就是疯子。在这种情况下，他的 "份额 "指的是如果布巴活着，他将拥有的公司的份额或部分。

珍妮回到福雷斯特身边，但又离开了，于是福雷斯特开始了他的跨国之旅，去探索生命的意义。

我会像猴子一样在树上叽叽喳喳地说话。

一种说得很快的方式，以一种不明确的方式说话。

她给了我这个广阔世界上最好的礼物。

"整个大千世界最好的礼物 "是一个使用超纲语法结构的套语，经常被小孩子使用。

你要跑到哪里去？

"跑去 "某地只是意味着去。

我清楚地跑过阿拉巴马州。

一个不必要的但有风格的副词，意思是 "完全"。

我想我还不如继续走下去。

一种常见的说法是 "考虑到所有的事情，我应该......"

我的脑子里就像响起了警报。这是一个已经有了自己的行动的人。

如果 "警报在你的脑海中响起"，你可能刚刚想到了一些令人难以置信的重要事情。一个 "有为 "的人，基本上是在为自己、为朋友、为社会做出积极贡献的同时，好好地生活。

我在做保险杠贴纸生意。你能想到什么口号吗？保险杠贴纸是人们贴在汽车后面的小牌子（在 "保险杠 "上），上面通常有一个巧妙的口号。口号 "是一个表达政治或商业观点的短语，如 "质疑权威"。

祝你有个愉快的一天。

20世纪70年代的一个常见的陈词滥调，被过度使用，以至于人们在听到这句话时常常感到恼怒。这句话出现在海报和T恤衫上，上面有一张笑脸。

妈妈说，你必须把过去的事情抛在脑后，才能继续前进。

更多阿甘家族的智慧。在展望未来之前，你必须接受过去。

有一天，在晴朗的蓝天下...

如果有事情发生在 "晴天"，那就是突然发生，出乎意料。

福瑞斯特和珍妮最后一次重逢。福瑞斯特很快就承受了他最大的悲伤，并收到了他最大的礼物......

我把你的剪报保存在一个剪贴簿上。

剪贴簿 "是一本包含记忆、照片、文章等的个人书籍。"剪报 "是指

剪报，是一组特定的

关于某人或某事的文章。

我在很长一段时间里都很混乱。

一种常见的口语，表示困扰，或做得很差。

我得走了。我是双车位。

当一辆车被 "双车 "停放时，它是非法停放的，通常是在街道的中间。

我有某种病毒。医生不知道它是什么。

生物学中的一个重要词汇。一种微小的寄生虫或细菌，经常引起人们的疾病。在这种情况下，病毒是指艾滋病病毒（HIV），它于20世纪80年代初出现在美国，是一种微妙的说法。

我的腿是用钛合金定制的。

任何 "定制 "的东西都是专门为一个人制作的（而不是大规模生产的）。

"钛合金 "是一种非常坚固的金属，用于火箭和其他机器等东西。

这就像太阳下山前在河口睡觉。

一条河进入一个大水体的地方，如湖泊或海洋。

我不知道我们每个人是否都有一个命运，或者我们只是在微风中意外地漂浮着。

"在微风中意外地漂浮 "是福雷斯特表达存在主义哲学的一种方式。在一个不属于我们的宇宙中，没有特定的方向，没有特定的原因，就这样漂浮着......

我要在展示会上展示这一点。

"展示和讲述 "是课堂时间的一部分，小孩子从他们的房子里带来的东西，以便与他们的同班同学讨论。

