
China's beauty business
Saving face
In China, beauty really is all about business

Business
Jul 10th 2004 edition


Jul 8th 2004
HONG KONG

Give this article
TO SEE how much of a commercial, western-like mind lurks beneath the modern Chinese woman's eastern aesthetic, turn to the case of Yang Yuan. The 20-year-old model from Henan province is suing the organisers of a beauty contest in Beijing for disqualifying her after discovering that she had had extensive cosmetic surgery.

Ms Yang, a minor celebrity on the mainland, argues that the whole point of going under the knife—she spent 110,000 yuan ($13,280) on alterations to her nose, lips and teeth, and a facelift—was to improve her appearance to get more modelling work and win, er, beauty pageants. Hence she is asking for 50,000 yuan compensation, not least to recoup some of her outlay.


The Beijing court that heard the suit has yet to rule. But whatever it decides, Ms Yang's case shows how fading social controls and cultural traditions combined with rising urban incomes are fuelling a boom in China's beauty business. Demand for lipsticks, make-up and lotions, both from foreign makers such as Revlon and local brands like Yue-Sai (recently bought by France's L'Oréal), is growing rapidly. Life-style magazines are mushrooming, as are plastic-surgery clinics. Beauty contests, once banned as “spiritual pollution”, are increasingly popular—China even hosted the “Miss World” pageant last year. Beauty clinics give discounts to clients who let them publish “before” and “after” photos—which is how Ms Yang was rumbled. In May, a Beijing hospital offered “guinea pigs” the chance to win seven free operations to become the first “artificially handsome man”. The Chinese beauty industry is now worth $24 billion a year according to one government estimate.

So far, so American. But there is a difference. Most western women (aspiring actresses apart) make use of beauty products or undergo plastic surgery primarily to boost their self-esteem. In China, by contrast, an enhanced appearance—often to add an eyelid crease and build up the nose—is primarily viewed as a ticket to higher earnings. Surgery is a commercial investment, often funded with a loan. Hence the willingness of many Chinese women to risk being operated on by badly qualified surgeons and equally their willingness to sue when things go wrong: official statistics reveal more than 200,000 malpractice suits over the past ten years.

But there is a happy ending in sight for the country's growing number of “man-made” beauties. A local businessman is planning an “artificial beauty” pageant in August, specifically for those who have had plastic surgery.

Recommended
ASIA
Plastic surgery is thriving in Afghanistan—to the outrage of some

BRIEFING
China’s growing military confidence puts Taiwan at risk

CHINA
Why so many young Chinese seek plastic surgery

This article appeared in the Business section of the print edition under the headline "Saving face"



中国的美容事业
挽回面子
在中国，美容真的是一门生意

商业
2004年7月10日版


2004年7月8日
香港

请看这篇文章
要想知道在现代中国女性的东方审美之下，潜藏着多少商业化的、类似西方的思想，请看杨媛的案例。这位来自河南的20岁模特正在起诉北京一个选美比赛的组织者，因为他们在发现她做了大量整容手术后取消了她的资格。

杨女士是大陆的一个小名人，她辩称，她花了11万元（13280美元）对她的鼻子、嘴唇和牙齿进行改造，并做了拉皮手术，目的是改善她的外表，以获得更多的模特工作和赢得选美比赛。因此，她要求获得5万元的赔偿，尤其是要收回她的一些支出。


审理该诉讼的北京法院尚未作出裁决。但是，无论法院如何裁决，杨女士的案件显示了社会控制和文化传统的消退，以及城市收入的增加是如何推动中国美容业的繁荣的。对口红、化妆品和乳液的需求正在迅速增长，这些产品既有外国制造商如Revlon，也有本土品牌如悦诗风吟（最近被法国的欧莱雅收购）。生活方式杂志如雨后春笋般涌现，整形外科诊所也是如此。曾因 "精神污染 "而被禁止的选美比赛越来越受欢迎，去年中国甚至举办了 "世界小姐 "选美比赛。美容诊所对那些允许他们发布 "手术前 "和 "手术后 "照片的客户给予折扣--这就是杨女士被打倒的原因。5月，北京一家医院向 "小白鼠 "提供机会，以赢得七次免费手术，成为第一个 "人造帅哥"。根据一项政府估计，中国的美容业现在每年价值240亿美元。

到目前为止，还是美国人。但是有一个区别。大多数西方女性（有抱负的女演员除外）使用美容产品或接受整形手术主要是为了提高她们的自尊心。相比之下，在中国，改善外观--通常是增加眼睑皱褶和修饰鼻子--主要被视为获得更高收入的门票。手术是一种商业投资，通常由贷款来资助。因此，许多中国妇女愿意冒着被资质不佳的外科医生进行手术的风险，同样，她们也愿意在出错时提起诉讼：官方统计数据显示，在过去十年中，有超过20万起不当行为诉讼。

但是，对于这个国家越来越多的 "人造 "美女来说，有一个幸福的结局在望。一位当地商人正计划在8月举办 "人造美女 "选美比赛，专门为那些做过整形手术的人服务。

推荐
亚洲
整形手术在阿富汗蓬勃发展--一些人对此感到愤怒

简报
中国日益增长的军事信心使台湾处于危险之中

中国
为什么这么多中国年轻人寻求整形手术

这篇文章出现在印刷版的商业部分，标题是 "挽救面子"