Cold comfort farm
A prizewinning poet’s haunting debut novel
In “The Discomfort of Evening”, a Dutch farming family is struck by tragedy

Books & arts
Apr 25th 2020 edition


Apr 23rd 2020
Give this article
The Discomfort of Evening. By Marieke Lucas Rijneveld. Translated by Michele Hutchison. Faber & Faber; 296 pages; £12.99. To be published in America by Graywolf Press in September; $16.

The 29-year-old author of this impressive Dutch debut, Marieke Lucas Rijneveld, grew up on a dairy farm in North Brabant. Cows, in this telling, are sensitive creatures; sick cows are the sweetest kind. “You could stroke them gently without them suddenly kicking back at you.” The meagre comfort in “The Discomfort of Evening” comes from these beasts; the humans in this searing novel, shortlisted for the International Booker prize, are too numb with pain to be able to console anyone.

Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

Ten-year-old Jas, the narrator, and her devout family live on a small farm in rural Holland. Theirs is a stern God rather than a loving one. When the family vet arrives at the homestead just before Christmas to report that Jas’s oldest brother has drowned, having fallen through the ice on a skating trip, Jas’s mother believes God is punishing her for being a bad parent. The Christmas tree is taken down, the decorations put away. The adults turn inward; the children face their grief on their own. “We are growing up with the Word, but words are lacking more and more frequently at the farm.”


Jas and her two surviving siblings embark on a series of rituals to try to hold the family together. She keeps two toads in a pail, hoping that if the animals can somehow be induced to mate, her parents will love one another again. After the farm is overwhelmed by foot-and-mouth disease, though, and the family herd has to be destroyed, the story takes an even darker turn.

The author, a prizewinning poet, is deft with words. “Kissing with tongues”, the narrator reflects, “always makes me think of those slimy, purplish-red cooking pears that Mum makes.” Out in the farmyard, “Two forks lie with their teeth through each other…like hands praying.” It is the strange, haunting observations through which the child, Jas, tries to make sense of the grown-up world that give this novel of grief its particular power. A book to read—and to remember.


寒冷的舒适农场
一位获奖诗人的首部长篇小说，令人神魂颠倒。
在《傍晚的不适》中，一个荷兰农业家庭遭遇了悲剧的打击

图书与艺术
2020年4月25日版


2020年4月23日
给这篇文章
傍晚的不适》。作者：Marieke Lucas Rijneveld。由米歇尔-哈奇森翻译。Faber & Faber；296页；12.99英镑。将于9月由Graywolf出版社在美国出版；16美元。

这部令人印象深刻的荷兰处女作的29岁作者Marieke Lucas Rijneveld在北布拉邦特的一个奶牛场长大。在这个故事中，奶牛是一种敏感的动物；生病的奶牛是最可爱的那种。"你可以轻轻地抚摸它们，而它们不会突然向你踢回来"。傍晚的不适》中微薄的安慰来自于这些野兽；在这部入围国际布克奖的炙热小说中，人类被痛苦折磨得麻木不仁，无法安慰任何人。

聆听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

10岁的叙述者贾斯和她虔诚的家人生活在荷兰农村的一个小农场里。他们的上帝是一个严厉的上帝，而不是一个充满爱心的上帝。当家庭兽医在圣诞节前来到家园，报告说贾斯的长兄在一次滑冰旅行中掉进冰里淹死了，贾斯的母亲认为上帝在惩罚她是个坏家长。圣诞树被摘下，装饰品被收起。大人们转向内部；孩子们自己面对他们的悲痛。"我们在话语中成长，但话语在农场里越来越缺乏。"


雅思和她两个幸存的兄弟姐妹开始了一系列的仪式，试图将这个家庭凝聚在一起。她把两只蟾蜍放在一个桶里，希望如果能以某种方式诱导动物交配，她的父母就会再次爱上对方。然而，当农场被口蹄疫淹没，家庭畜群不得不被摧毁后，故事发生了更加黑暗的变化。

作者是一位获奖的诗人，善于运用文字。叙述者说："用舌头接吻"，"总是让我想到妈妈做的那些粘稠的、紫红色的煮梨"。在农田里，"两把叉子躺在一起，牙齿穿过对方......就像手在祈祷"。正是这些奇怪的、令人不安的观察，孩子贾斯试图通过这些观察来理解成人的世界，使这本悲痛的小说具有特殊的力量。这是一本值得一读的书，也是一本值得回忆的书。