European literature
After 50 years, a Hungarian novel is published in English
A onetime “class enemy” finds a new audience

Books & arts
Mar 2nd 2019 edition


Feb 28th 2019
Give this article
Katalin Street. By Magda Szabo. Translated by Len Rix. NYRB Classics; 248 pages; $15.95. MacLehose Press; £12.99.

The hungarian writer Magda Szabo, who died in 2007, knew from personal experience what it meant to have dreams smashed by arbitrary power. As a young poet she won her country’s chief literary honour, the Baumgarten prize, in 1949. On the same day, the communist regime cancelled this award to a “class enemy”. She lost her civil-service job, went to teach in a primary school, and only began to publish novels a decade later as a thaw began.

Listen to this story
Enjoy more audio and podcasts on iOS or Android.

Her fiction shows the travails of modern Hungarian history from oblique but sharply illuminating angles. In novels such as “The Door” and “Iza’s Ballad”, intimate dramas are entangled with public upheavals: the repressive governments and Nazi occupation of the 1930s and 1940s; the sudden annihilation of Hungary’s Jews; the soul-sapping compromises and betrayals of the Stalinist era. In “Katalin Street”, published in 1969 but only now translated into supple, graceful English by Len Rix, three neighbouring families live through the shocks that batter Budapest between 1934 and 1968.

Readers meet the upright, naive headmaster Mr Elekes, who will see his obedience to authority traduced by two kinds of tyranny, and his wife and daughters: sensible, thoughtful Iren, who narrates part of the story, and scatty, lovable Blanka. Next door lives the affable Jewish dentist Mr Held, with his wife Anna and dreamy daughter Henriette. On the other side resides the kind-hearted warrior Major Biro with his housekeeper-mistress Mrs Temes and son, Balint. The fate of this tarnished golden boy, a mediocre but weirdly charming medic, anchors a plot that jumps back and forth through the decades.


To these adjacent households on a quiet street between the Danube and the castle, public tumult often feels as remote as the distant sounds of unrest that reach survivors during the anti-communist uprising of 1956. They dwell most happily in memory, in longing, even in fantasy. Their pasts haunt their present: “The dead are not dead,” Szabo writes, “but continue living in this world.”

Devoted to order and ritual, headmaster Elekes seeks to “impose stability on the uncertainties of life”. History, with its “concentrated unreality” of cruelty and absurdity, will wreck all such hopes. Szabo summons the cosy, closed world of the three clans with a lyrical, quicksilver touch. That makes the thuggish intrusions of despotic power—the Helds’ deportation, the shooting of Henriette—all the more wrenching. In a striking departure from her usual delicate realism, the author makes the dead girl return as a phantom witness to later events. The post-war years see persecution, exile, grief and eviction fray or snap this tight circle of allies. Symbolised by the ghostly Henriette, former times shadow the new, with “the living experience and the old memory sitting neatly side by side”.

Szabo is no nostalgic sentimentalist. The pre-war bourgeois idyll between river and castle had defects aplenty. Yet gilded recollection fortifies and binds the families; Iren and Balint, tetchily married in the end, have both “seen the same blue sky shining, before the thunder broke”. That thunder blew trust and justice out of daily life. Now, only force and chance hold sway. “Life isn’t a schoolroom,” Balint says when the mercurial Blanka defects to the West. “There aren’t any rules.”

Recommended
BOOKS & ARTS
Turkey’s best-known author reflects on politics and pestilence

BOOKS & ARTS
Kazuo Ishiguro’s rich meditation on love and morality

BOOKS & ARTS
And the winner is…who cares?

This article appeared in the Books & arts section of the print edition under the headline "Ghosts of Budapest"

欧洲文学
50年后，一部匈牙利小说以英文出版
一个曾经的 "阶级敌人 "找到了新的读者

图书与艺术
2019年3月2日版


2019年2月28日
给这篇文章
卡塔林街。作者：玛格达-萨博。译者：Len Rix。NYRB Classics；248页；15.95美元。MacLehose出版社；12.99英镑。

2007年去世的匈牙利作家玛格达-萨博(Magda Szabo)从个人经历中了解到，梦想被专横的权力打碎意味着什么。作为一个年轻的诗人，她在1949年赢得了她的国家的主要文学荣誉--鲍姆加登奖。在同一天，共产主义政权取消了这个授予 "阶级敌人 "的奖项。她失去了公务员的工作，去了一所小学教书，直到十年后开始解冻，才开始出版小说。

听听这个故事
在iOS或Android上享受更多音频和播客。

她的小说从斜视但尖锐的角度展示了现代匈牙利历史的苦难。在《门》和《伊扎的歌谣》等小说中，私密的戏剧与公共动荡纠缠在一起：20世纪30年代和40年代的压迫性政府和纳粹占领；匈牙利犹太人的突然被消灭；斯大林主义时代的灵魂妥协和背叛。在1969年出版的《卡塔林街》中，三个相邻的家庭经历了1934年至1968年期间对布达佩斯的冲击，但现在才由莱恩-里克斯翻译成柔美的英语。

读者见到了正直、天真的校长Elekes先生，他将看到自己对权威的服从被两种暴政所破坏，还有他的妻子和女儿：理智、体贴的Iren（她叙述了故事的一部分）和邋遢、可爱的Blanka。隔壁住着和蔼可亲的犹太牙医Held先生，他的妻子Anna和充满梦想的女儿Henriette。另一边住着心地善良的战士比罗少校和他的管家--女主人特梅斯夫人以及儿子巴林特。这个被玷污的金童的命运，一个平庸但奇怪的迷人的医生，是一个在几十年间来回跳跃的情节的支柱。


对这些位于多瑙河和城堡之间的安静街道上的相邻家庭来说，公众的骚动常常让他们感到遥远，就像1956年反共产主义起义期间幸存者听到的遥远的骚动声一样。他们在记忆中、在憧憬中、甚至在幻想中居住得最开心。他们的过去困扰着他们的现在。萨博写道："死者并没有死，""而是继续生活在这个世界上"。

校长Elekes热衷于秩序和仪式，试图 "将稳定强加给生活的不确定性"。历史以其残酷和荒诞的 "浓缩的不现实"，将摧毁所有这样的希望。萨博以一种抒情的、敏捷的笔触描绘了三个部族的舒适、封闭的世界。这使得专制权力的粗暴入侵--海尔德家族的驱逐、对亨里埃特的枪杀--更加令人揪心。与她一贯的细腻现实主义不同的是，作者让死去的女孩作为后来事件的幽灵证人回来。在战后的几年里，迫害、流放、悲痛和驱逐使这个紧密的盟友圈变得脆弱或破裂。以幽灵般的亨里埃特为象征，以前的时代给新的时代带来了阴影，"生活经验和旧的记忆整齐地并排在一起"。

萨博不是一个怀旧的多愁善感的人。河流和城堡之间的战前资产阶级田园生活有很多缺陷。然而，镀金的回忆巩固和捆绑了这些家庭；伊伦和巴林特，到头来还是乏味的夫妻，都 "在雷声响起之前，看到了同一片蓝天在闪耀"。那雷声把信任和正义从日常生活中吹走了。现在，只有力量和机会在起作用。巴林特说："生活不是一个教室，"当多疑的布兰卡投奔西方时，他说。"没有任何规则"。

推荐
书籍和艺术
土耳其最知名的作家对政治和瘟疫的思考

书籍和艺术
石黑一雄对爱情和道德的丰富思考

书籍与艺术
获奖者是......谁在乎呢？

这篇文章出现在印刷版的书籍和艺术部分，标题是 "布达佩斯的幽灵"