Is the Trinity in Genesis 1?

JANUARY 1, 2020  |  SCOTT SWAIN

《创世记》第一章中有三位一体吗？

Editors’ note:

This is part of TGC’s 2020 Read the Bible initiative, encouraging Christians and churches to read together through God’s Word in a year. Subscribe to our daily newsletter and podcast (Apple | RSS | Stitcher), and join our Facebook group.

编者按

这是福音联盟2020年读经计划的一部分，鼓励基督徒和教会在一年内一起读完上帝的话语。请订阅我们的每日通讯和播客(Apple | RSS | Stitcher)，并加入我们的Facebook群。

Is the Trinity in Genesis 1? The answer is a straightforward “yes.” Because God is Father, Son, and Spirit yesterday, today, and forever, the holy Trinity is present on every page of holy Scripture, including Genesis 1.

《创世记》第一章中有三位一体吗？答案直截了当——有。因为神在昨日、今日一直到永远是一样的，都是圣父、圣子和圣灵。圣三位一体存在于圣经的每一页，包括《创世记》第一章。

Though affirming the presence of the Trinity on every page of Scripture is easy, discerning the mode of the Trinity’s presence in various passages of Scripture is more complicated. If older readers of Genesis 1 were more likely to fall prey to overinterpretation (seeing more of the Trinity than a particular passage attests), contemporary readers are more likely to fall prey to underinterpretation (seeing less of the Trinity than a particular passage attests).

虽然肯定三位一体存在于圣经的每一页很容易，但辨别三位一体在不同经文中的存在方式却比较复杂。如果说《创世记》从前的读者更有可能陷入过度解读（看到的三位一体比某段经文所证明的更多），那么当代读者则更有可能陷入解读不足（看到的三位一体比某段经文所证明的更少）。

Hidden Presence in the Old Testament

旧约中的隐藏存在

We begin with the larger question of how the Trinity is present in the Old Testament. According to Lutheran theologian Johann Gerhard, the Trinity is present in Genesis 1 “in a manner of revelation appropriate to that time.”

我们从三位一体在旧约中如何存在这个更大的问题开始。根据信义宗神学家约翰·格哈德（Johann Gerhard）的观点，三位一体在《创世记》第一章中“以适合那个时代的启示方式 ”出现。

The self-revelation of the Trinity in Scripture unfolds according to a twofold economy. There is that which comes before Jesus’s appearance in the flesh (the self-revelation of the Trinity in the Old Testament) and that which comes after Jesus’s appearance in the flesh (the self-revelation of the Trinity in the New Testament). The contrast between these two forms of revelation is not absolute. It’s not that the Trinity is absent in the Old Testament and present in the New Testament. The contrast is relative. Both testaments are modes of the Trinity’s presence, but they are different modes of the Trinity’s presence. The Trinity is “hidden” in the Old Testament and “manifest” in the New.

圣经中三位一体的自我启示，在新旧两约中分别呈现*（The self-revelation of the Trinity in Scripture unfolds according to a twofold economy 这个翻译还需要斟酌 #[[Edit Later]]）*，即：耶稣道成肉身之前(旧约中三位一体的自我启示)和耶稣道成肉身之后(新约中三位一体的自我启示)。这两种形式的启示区别并不绝对，并不是说三位一体在旧约中没有，而在新约中才出现。这种对比是相对的。新旧两约都是三位一体的存在模式，但属于不同的存在模式。三位一体在旧约中是“隐藏的”，在新约中是“显明的”。

The presence of the Trinity in the Old Testament, like a treasure hidden in a field (Matt. 13:44; Col. 2:2–3), is a “hidden presence,” one we can only fully appreciate in light of the Trinity’s “manifest presence” in the New.

三位一体在旧约中的存在，就像藏在田野里的财宝（马太福音13:44；歌罗西书2:2-3），是一种 “隐藏的存在”，我们只有根据三位一体在新约中的 “显明的存在”才能充分理解。

Hidden Presence in Genesis 1

创世记第一章中的隐藏存在

With this clarification in place, we’re better prepared to address our question: how is the Trinity present in Genesis 1 “in a manner of revelation appropriate to that time”? Genesis 1 exhibits at least three traces of the Trinity’s hidden presence. These traces provide essential building blocks for the full edifice of Trinitarian revelation manifest in the New Testament.

有了这个澄清，就可以更好地解决我们的问题: 三位一体如何在创世记第一章“以一种适合那个时代的启示方式”出现？创世记第一章至少展示了三位一体隐藏存在的三条痕迹。这些痕迹为新约中三位一体的启示提供了重要的基石。

1. Genesis 1 exhibits several instances of subject-verb disagreement.

第一、《创世记》第一章中出现了几处主谓不一致的情况

In Genesis 1:1, the plural noun “Elohim” (“God” in the ESV) is joined with the singular verb “created”: “In the beginning, [Elohim] created the heavens and the earth.” The pattern is repeated in Genesis 1:27: “So [Elohim] created man in his own image, in the image of [Elohim] he created him; male and female he created them.”

在创世记1:1中，复数名词 "Elohim"（ESV为 "God"）与单数动词 "创造 "连在一起。“起初，[Elohim]创造了天和地”。这种模式在《创世记》1:27中重复出现：“于是[Elohim]照着自己的形像造人，乃是照着[Elohim]的形像造男造女。”

These examples of subject-verb disagreement seem to be intentional on the part of the author. What is he emphasizing? That God alone created all things by means of his singular agency. Creation wasn’t the work of a committee of heavenly beings partnering together. God alone created heaven and earth, without any guides (Isa. 40:13–14) or helpers (Isa. 44:24; Jer. 10:12; 27:5).

这些主谓不一致的例子似乎是作者有意为之的。他在强调什么？只有上帝通过他唯一的本体创造了万物。创造并不是由一个天堂委员会合伙的工作。上帝独自创造了天地，没有任何顾问（赛40:13-14），也没有任何助手（赛44:24；耶10:12；27:5）。

Creation wasn’t the work of a committee of heavenly beings.

创造并不是由一个天堂委员会合伙的工作。

In emphasizing this point, Genesis 1 provides the first and fundamental building block of trinitarian theology: monotheism. One God created all things, rules all things, and directs all things to himself. Apart from monotheism, belief in the Trinity would be a form of polytheism. Only in the context of monotheism is faith in the Trinity faith in one God in three persons.

在强调这一点时，《创世记》第一章提供了三位一体神学首要和基本的架构：一神论。独一上帝创造万物，统治万物，并将万物引向自己。离开了一神论，对三位一体的信仰将会变成一种多神论。只有在一神论的背景下，对三位一体的信仰才是：上帝独一，位格有三。

2. Genesis 1 includes God’s Word and Spirit within God’s singular agency.

第二、《创世记》第一章将上帝的道和圣灵纳入上帝的本体

The preceding examples teach us that God alone created heaven and earth. They also help us appreciate the place of God’s Word and Spirit within God’s work of creating.

前面的例子告诉我们，上帝独自创造了天地。这也帮助我们理解上帝的道和圣灵在上帝创造之工中的地位。

According to Genesis 1, God’s Word and Spirit are the means whereby God produces, forms, and fills all things. God speaks creatures into existence (Gen. 1:3, 6, 9, 11, 14, 20, 24, 26). God names the various creatures he brings into existence (Gen. 1:5, 8, 10). And God blesses the creatures he brings into existence (Gen. 1:22, 28). Along with God’s speech, God’s Spirit is also active in the work of creation, hovering like a mother bird (Gen. 1:2; cf. Deut. 32:11) over the unformed, unfilled world God produced, ready to endow it with life, energy, intelligence, and fullness by means of his life-giving presence (Ex. 31:3; 35:31; Num. 24:2).

根据《创世记》第一章，上帝的道和圣灵是上帝制造、形成和充满万物的手段。上帝用道创造了生物（创1：3，6，9，11，14，20，24，26）。上帝为他带来的各种生物命名（创1：5，8，10）。上帝祝福他所带来的生物（创1:22，28）。伴随着上帝的道，圣灵也活跃在创造之工中，上帝的灵运行在上帝创造的未成形、未填充的世界上（创1:2；参看申32:11），如同雌鸟盘旋于巢上，准备赋予它生命、能量、智慧和丰富，这一切都通过他颁赐生命的存在（出31:3；35:31；民24:2）。

In identifying God’s Word and Spirit as the means whereby God produces, forms, and fills all things, Genesis 1 includes God’s Word and Spirit within God’s singular agency. To say that God creates by his Word and Spirit is another way of saying that God creates by himself and not by the agency of another (Ps. 33:6–9; John 1:3; Rom. 11:36; 1 Cor. 8:6; Col. 1:16; Heb. 1:2).

《创世记》第一章将上帝的道和圣灵确定为上帝产生、形成和充满万物的手段，将上帝的道和圣灵纳入上帝的单数形式*（God’s singular agency.--是不是应该翻译成单数代理？#[[Edit Later]]）*。说上帝通过他的道和灵创造，是说上帝通过自己创造，而不是通过其他机构创造（诗33：6-9；约翰福音1：3；罗马书11：36；林前8：6；西1：16；来1：2）。

Whatever distinctions Scripture later reveals between Elohim, his Word, and his Spirit, they should not be taken as distinctions between the one God and something that is not God. They should be taken as distinctions within the one God himself.

无论《圣经》后来怎样揭示了 Elohim、他的道和他的灵之间的区别，他们都不应被视为独一上帝和非上帝之间的区别。它们应该被看作是第一上帝本身的区别。

Genesis 1 doesn’t yet indicate the full significance that the names “Word” and “Spirit” will have for trinitarian theology. The full significance of these names only comes with the appearance of the Word made flesh and the outpouring of the Spirit at Pentecost. Nevertheless, by including God’s Word and Spirit within God’s singular agency, Genesis 1 puts another fundamental building block of trinitarian theology in place. Whatever distinctions Scripture later reveals between Elohim, his Word, and his Spirit, they should not be taken as distinctions between the one God and something that is not God. They should be taken as distinctions within the one God himself.

《创世记》第一章还没有表明 “道 ”与 “灵”这两个名字对三位一体神学的全部意义。这些名字的全部意义只有在道成肉身和圣灵在五旬节浇灌的时候才会出现。然而，通过将神的道和灵纳入神的单数形式，《创世记》第一章将三位一体的另一个基本构件放在那里（#[[Edit Later]]）。无论《圣经》后来怎样揭示了 Elohim、他的道和他的灵之间的区别，他们都不应被视为独一上帝和非上帝之间的区别。它们应该被看作是第一上帝本身的区别。

3. What about those plurals?

第三、那些复数是什么？

As noted above, Genesis 1 repeatedly identifies God by the plural noun “Elohim.” Some biblical commentators have taken this plural noun as an indication of God’s tripersonal fullness. Still others have taken God’s plural self-address in Genesis 1:26 (“Let us make man in our image, after our likeness”) as an indication that the work of creation is the work of one God in three persons. Are these plural forms also signs of the Trinity’s hidden presence? Let’s focus on Genesis 1:26.

如上所述，《创世记》第一章多次用复数名词 "Elohim "来指代上帝。一些圣经评论家认为这个复数名词表明了上帝的三重人格的完整性。还有人认为创世记1:26中上帝的复数自称（"我们要照着我们的形象，按着我们的样式造人"）表明创造的工作是三位一体的上帝的工作。这些复数形式是否也是三位一体隐藏存在的迹象？让我们关注一下创世记1：26。

（2022-02-28 18:33 完成了两个番茄钟，翻译到此）

（2022-03-07 15:38 开始新的翻译）

God’s plural self-address in Genesis 1:26 is sometimes explained as an example of the so-called “royal we,” an idiomatic expression whereby a king addresses himself in plural form. Others see it as an example of God addressing the heavenly assembly of angels (Job 1:6; 2:1). Both explanations are unlikely. The first lacks evidence of being an idiomatic expression in the Ancient Near East. The second contradicts the overarching message of Genesis 1 and Scripture as a whole. When it comes to God’s work of creating, God does not enlist the help of angels, which at best serve as an accompanying chorus (Job 38:7). God alone acts by means of his singular, sovereign agency: “I am the LORD, who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself” (Isa. 44:24).

创世记1:26中上帝的复数自称有时被解释为所谓 "皇家我们"的一个例子，这是一种特定的短语表达，意思是指国王用复数形式称呼自己。还有人认为这是上帝对天上天使集会讲话时的一个例子（约伯记1:6；2:1），这两种解释都是不可能的。第一种解释，缺乏证据表明它是古代近东的一种成语表达方式。第二种说法与《创世记》第一章和整个圣经的总体信息相矛盾。当涉及到神的创造工作时，神没有寻求天使的帮助，天使充其量只是一个伴奏合唱（约伯记38:7）。只有上帝通过他唯一的主权机构行事。"我是创造万物的耶和华，唯有我把天拉长，把地铺开"（赛44:24）。

What, then, should we make of the riddle of God’s plural self-address in Genesis 1:26? As Robert Jenson somewhere observes, God’s Word and Spirit are the only candidates Genesis 1 actually presents as potential objects of God’s plural self-address in Genesis 1:26. This observation notwithstanding, a conclusive judgment remains difficult to reach.

那么，我们应该如何理解创世记1:26中上帝的复数自称之谜？正如罗伯特-詹森（Robert Jenson）在某处观察到的那样，上帝的话语和圣灵是创世记1章26节中作为上帝复数自称的潜在对象而实际呈现的唯一人选。尽管有这样的观察，但结论性的判断仍然难以达成。

The difficulty of arriving at conclusive judgments when interpreting Old Testament revelation of the Trinity should not surprise us—and need not bother us—if we are sensitive to the twofold economy of scriptural revelation of the Trinity. The riddles of Old Testament revelation of the Trinity are only resolved by New Testament revelation of the Trinity.

在解释旧约中三位一体的启示时，如果我们对圣经中三位一体启示的双重经济敏感，就不应该惊讶，也不需要困扰我们。旧约对三位一体的启示之谜只有通过新约对三位一体的启示才能解决。

Genesis 1 Sets the Stage

Traces of the Trinity’s presence in the Old Testament provide precious building blocks for the full edifice of trinitarian revelation that follows in the New. Genesis 1 introduces us to the main character of the scriptural drama: the one God who rules all things by his Word and Spirit. Genesis 1 sets the stage on which the scriptural drama unfolds: the world produced, formed, and filled by the triune God. And Genesis 1 introduces us to the main object of the triune God’s sovereign self-commitment: the creature made in God’s image.

《创世记》第一章奠定了基础

三位一体在旧约中的存在痕迹为新约中三位一体启示的完整架构提供了宝贵的基石。创世记1向我们介绍了圣经戏剧的主角：通过他的话语和圣灵统治万物的独一上帝。创世记》为圣经戏剧的展开搭建了舞台：由三位一体的神所创造、形成和充满的世界。创世记1号向我们介绍了三位一体的上帝的主权自我承诺的主要对象：按照上帝的形象制造的生物。

In doing so, Genesis 1 serves the main purpose of holy Scripture, which is to promote union and communion between the holy Trinity and the people created, redeemed, and perfected for himself.

这样一来，《创世记》第一章就达到了神圣圣经的主要目的，即促进神圣的三位一体神与为他自己创造、救赎和完善的人之间的联合和共融。

Scott R. Swain is president and James Woodrow Hassell professor of systematic theology at Reformed Theological Seminary in Orlando, Florida. He has written or edited several books, including The God of the Gospel: Robert Jenson’s Trinitarian Theology, Retrieving Eternal Generation, and The Trinity: An Introduction (forthcoming).

**Scott R. Swain**（斯科特·斯温）是改革宗神学院佛罗里达校区的院长和系统神学教授，主要著作是《福音中的神：罗伯特·简森的三一论》（__God of the Gospel: Robert Jenson’s Trinitarian Theology__，中文名暂译）。

斯科特-R-斯温是佛罗里达州奥兰多改革神学院的院长和詹姆斯-伍德罗-哈塞尔系统神学教授。他写过或编辑过几本书，包括《福音之神》。罗伯特-詹森的三位一体神学》、《找回永恒的世代》和《三位一体》。三位一体：简介》（即将出版）。