Is Your Job Useless?
AUGUST 19, 2013  |  ELISE AMYX

你的工作果真无用吗？
2013年8月19日 | Elise Amyx

When I graduated college, I saw many of my Christian friends apply for campus ministry and rush to missions work in Africa for fear they would not find significance at a standard 9-to-5 desk job.

我大学毕业时，看到我的许多基督徒朋友申请参加校园事工，并抢着去非洲宣教，因为他们害怕在标准的朝九晚五的办公室工作中找不到意义。

I watched plans to become dance teachers, chiropractors, and entrepreneurs dissolve as my peers gave up their dreams in order to pursue “full-time ministry.” They feared one day waking up and feeling they weren’t changing the world or advancing the kingdom of God. They were ready to do anything to avoid that gnawing feeling.

我观察到我的同龄人放弃了成为舞蹈老师、脊椎治疗师和企业家的计划，去追求 “全职事奉”。他们生怕有一天醒来后会觉得自己没有去改变世界，没有拓展神的国度。为了避免这种切齿痛悔的感觉，他们准备做任何事情。

They aren’t alone. Today, three-quarters of Americans feel unfulfilled in their work—and job dissatisfaction may be an even greater struggle in the Christian community. What do we do, then, when we feel our work is useless?

他们并不唯一这么想的。今天，四分之三的美国人无法在工作中找到成就感。在基督徒群体中，对工作不满所带来的挣扎更严重。那么，一旦觉得工作无用，我们该怎么办？

Biblical Basis of Work
When thinking about our vocations, we should remember God created us to work. According to Genesis 2:15, work is not a curse, but a gift from God given to us before the fall. Work was—and still is—a tool for us to develop the creation and be salt and light in the world for the glory of God and his kingdom.

圣经怎么看待工作

在思考我们的职业时，应该记住上帝创造我们的目的是为了工作。根据创世记2:15，工作不是诅咒，而是上帝在人类堕落之前赐下的礼物。工作无论过去还是现在，都是我们用来开发被造物和做光做盐的工具，目的是为了上帝和他国度的荣耀。

As a result of the fall, however, our work will at times be frustrating and difficult. So work can often seem useless. But Christ came to restore all things, which means even the most boring job is redeemable.

然而，由于人类犯罪堕落，工作有时会令我们沮丧和为难。所以，工作常常会显得毫无用处。但基督来是为了恢复万物，这意味着即使最无聊的工作也能得到补救。

All Work Is God’s Work
Though some work may seem useless, Christians understand that all work is God’s work. Our work only seems insignificant because we fail to grasp the big picture. This is what economists refer to as the “knowledge problem.” The knowledge problem means we can’t always see the big picture because knowledge is dispersed among many people; no one person knows everything. In the vocational sense, this means we may not understand how our work is part of a much larger economic dynamic. If we can’t easily see how our work contributes to the common good, we may understate the effect of what we do.

所有工作都是神的工作
虽然有些工作可能看起来毫无用处，但基督徒明白，所有的工作都是神的工作。我们的工作看起来无足轻重，只是因为我们没有抓住大局。这就是经济学家所说的 "知识问题"。知识问题意味着我们不能总是看到大局，因为知识分散在许多人身上，没有一个人知道一切。在职业意义上，这意味着我们可能不理解我们的工作怎样成为宏大经济动力的一部分。如果不容易看到我们的工作如何为公共利益做出贡献，我们可能会低估工作的果效。

Some positions make it difficult for workers to see the end product, but that certainly does not mean that their work is insignificant. Just because a factory worker doesn’t receive the instant gratification of seeing the final product that he helped to create doesn’t change the reality that his effort contributed to that product.

有些职位的工人很难看到最终产品，但这当然不意味着他们的工作是无足轻重的。工厂工人没看到他们参与创造的最终产品，得不到即时的成就感，并不改变他曾努力为该产品做出贡献的事实。

Hugh Whelchel articulates this idea well when he writes,

The work of believers possesses a significance which goes far beyond the visible results of that work. . . . All human work, however lowly, is capable of glorifying God. Work is the potentially productive act of praise.

休·威尔谢尔（Hugh Whelchel）很好地阐述了这个观点，他写道

基督徒工作所具有的意义，远远超出肉眼可见的工作成果。……所有人类的工作，无论多么卑微，都能荣耀上帝。工作是用劳动发出潜在的赞美。

It’s important to remember that the value of our work may never be fully realized in our lifetime. In medieval times, it could take hundreds of years to build a single cathedral. The laborer laying the cornerstone might never live to see the top of the steeple.

切记，我们工作的价值一生中可能永远不会完全实现。在中世纪，建造一座大教堂可能需要几百年的时间，铺设基石的工人可能无法活着看到尖塔。

Clearly, the knowledge problem is also a faith problem. Rather than being discouraged in seemingly insignificant work, we can humbly rest in the confidence of God’s master plan.

显然，知识问题也是一个信仰问题。与其在看似微不足道的工作中灰心丧气，宁可凭信心谦卑地安息在神总体的计划中。

However, there are a few cases in which work is truly useless. They occur in industries where demand for a product or service is immoral or if the product or service doesn’t meet the intended purpose. Examples include anything from pornographic material to goods that do not function properly.

然而，在少数情况下，工作确实是无用的。这发生在对产品或服务的需求不符合道德的行业，或者产品或服务不符合预期目标的产业，从色情材料到目的不纯的商品，并不鲜见。

Every Task Significant
All good work can be “Christian” and no work that serves mankind is useless. Even interns who enter contact names into a spreadsheet add significant value to their organization—and the organization’s mission—through their labor. Likewise, the factory worker who churns out widgets day after day is actively participating in the work of God.

每项任务都重要

所有好工作都可以是 "符合基督教教义的"，任何工作，只要为人类服务，都不是徒劳无功的。即使是在电子表格中输入联系人名单的实习生，也会通过劳动为其组织和组织的使命增添重要价值。同样，工厂里工人日复一日地生产小部件，也在积极参与上帝的工作。

Though some routine assignments seem unimportant, every task is significant if God has called you to it. We fulfill our call to Christian work when we put our hands to the task he has called us to do—and leave it to God to see the final outcome.

虽然一些常规任务看起来无足轻重，但如果神呼召你去做，每一项都重要无比。放手去做神所呼召的事，就完成了神对基督徒工作的呼召——最终结果还是留给神去鉴察吧。

Elise Amyx is the communications associate at the Institute for Faith, Work & Economics. She has previously worked with the values and capitalism project at A.E.I. and the Acton Institute. Her articles have been published in Real Clear Religion, The Detroit News, and AFF Doublethink. She has a BBA in economics from James Madison University.

Elise Amyx是信仰、工作与经济研究所的通讯助理。她曾在A.E.I.和阿克顿研究所的价值观和资本主义项目中工作。她的文章发表在Real Clear Religion, The Detroit News, and AFF Doublethink. 她拥有詹姆斯·麦迪逊大学的经济学学士学位。