4 Reasons Christians Should Support Banning Pornography
基督徒应支持禁止色情制品的4个理由

DECEMBER 14, 2019  |  JOE CARTER

Earlier this month, four Republican members of the U.S. House sent a letter to the U.S. attorney general recommending that he declare “the prosecution of obscene pornography a criminal justice priority,” and that he advise U.S. attorneys to start prosecuting the “major producers and distributors of such material.”

本月早些时候，美国众议院四位共和党议员致信美国司法部长，建议他宣布“起诉淫秽色情制品为刑事司法的优先事项"，并由他来提议美国检察官开始起诉 "此类材料的主要生产者和传播者”。

The Congressmen point out that as a candidate, President Trump signed an anti-pornography pledge stating he would enforce federal obscenity laws to stop the explosion of pornography. “This pledge has so far been ignored in the Trump administration,” they note, “with the result that the harms of illegal pornography have continued unabated, affecting children and adults so acutely to the point that 15 state legislatures have declared that pornography is causing a public health crisis.”

议员们指出，还在竞选总统的时候，特朗普总统就签署过一份反色情承诺书，表示他将执行联邦淫秽法以阻止色情制品的爆炸性增长。"他们指出，"这一承诺在特朗普政府中至今被忽视，"结果非法色情制品的危害有增无减，对儿童和成人的影响如此之大，以至于15个州的立法机构宣布色情制品正在造成公共健康危机。"

The letter, and its endorsement by some social conservatives, sparked a backlash from many people on the political right. A large number of conservatives and libertarians (including some who consider themselves followers of Jesus) are complaining that regulating or banning pornography goes against their political principles.* As The New York Times columnist Ross Douthat sardonically responded to the anti-ban conservatives, “Whatever happens in the legal/cultural battle over porn itself, I’m quite confident that the claim that ‘obscenity laws are un-conservative’ will eventually sound like gibberish to everyone save scholars of late-20th-century American political arcana.”

这封信以及一些社会保守派的背书，引发了许多政治右翼人士的反击。大量保守派和自由主义者（包括一些自认是耶稣信徒的人）抱怨监管或禁止色情制品违背了他们的政治原则【注*】。《纽约时报》专栏作家罗斯·杜塔特（Ross Douthat）不无讥讽地回应那些反对禁止色情的保守派说：“无论这场关于色情制品的法律/文化斗争发生什么，我都十分确信，除了研究20 世纪后期美国政治秘密的学者之外，每个人都会觉得“反淫秽法不够保守”的说法是胡言乱语。”

Remember When Christians Hated Porn?
Most shocking about the shift, the anti-ban position is either held by or silently supported by many Christians. That wasn’t always the case. Evangelicals, in particular, once considered it our duty to prevent the spread and normalization of porn.

还记得基督徒痛恨色情是什么时候吗？

最令人震惊的转变是，许多基督徒要么持有反禁令的立场，要么默默支持这一立场。然而，情况并不总是如此，特别是福音派，曾经认为有责任防止色情的传播和正常化。

For example, in 1976, evangelicals were scandalized that a presidential candidate would agree to be interviewed by Playboy magazine. As Jerry Falwell, a Baptist pastor and co-founder of the Moral Majority, said in 1981, “Giving an interview to Playboy magazine was lending the credence and the dignity of the highest office in the land to a salacious, vulgar magazine that did not even deserve the time of his day.”

例如，1976 年，福音派人士对一位总统候选人同意接受《花花公子》杂志的采访感到震惊。 正如浸信会牧师和道德多数派的联合创始人杰里·福尔韦尔（Jerry Falwell）在 1981 年所说：“接受《花花公子》的采访是将这个国家最高职位的信任和尊严借给一本色情、粗俗的杂志，这本杂志甚至不值得他花时间一瞥。”

Forty years later, though, many of those same evangelicals (including Falwell’s son) supported a  presidential candidate who not only was interviewed by that publication but even appeared on the cover, made a cameo appearance in Playboy’s softcore porn videos, and (allegedly) cheated on his wife with a Playboy model.

然而，40年后，许多同样的福音派信徒（包括福尔韦尔的儿子）支持的一位总统候选人，不仅接受了《花花公子》的采访，甚至还登上了封面，在该杂志的软色情视频中客串，并且（据称）与一名《花花公子》的模特偷情。

While we may express concern about the nefarious effect of porn, our actions reveal what we truly believe. Here are four reasons we Christians should once again seek to rid our country from the poison of pornography.

虽然我们会对色情的邪恶影响表示担忧，但只有行动才能体现我们的真实想法。我们基督徒应该再次行动，使我们的国家摆脱色情制品的毒害，理由有四个：

1. Porn is a dangerously harmful product that is largely unregulated.
In the interest of public safety, the government regulates a broad range of products, including food; human and veterinary drugs; biological products and medical devices intended for human use; dietary supplements; radiation-emitting electronic products; cosmetics; and tobacco products. In a 2018 op-ed titled “Let’s Ban Porn,” Douthat wrote, “[U]nlike many structural forces with which moralists of the left and right contend, porn is also just a product—something made and distributed and sold, and therefore subject to regulation and restriction if we so desire.”

一、色情制品危险而有害，且基本上不受监管

为了公共安全，政府对广泛的产品进行监管，包括食品、人用和兽用药品、生物制品和供人使用的医疗设备、膳食补充剂、辐射电子产品、化妆品和烟草制品。在2018年一篇题为《让我们禁止色情》的专栏文章中，杜塔特写道："与左派和右派的道德家争论不休的诸多结构性力量不同，色情只是一种产品，一种制造、传播和销售的东西，因此，如果我们愿意，可以进行监管和限制。"

Porn is a product that causes social anxiety, depression, low motivation, erectile dysfunction, concentration problems, and negative self-perceptions in terms of physical appearance and sexual functioning. Additionally, the product is associated with increases in loneliness, divorce, and acceptance of sexual assault and harassment. But despite being one of the most harmful products for consumption, porn is largely free from government regulation.

色情是一种产品，会导致社会焦虑、抑郁、乏力、阳痿、注意力不集中，以及对身体外观和性功能方面的负面自我认知。此外，色情还与孤独感、离婚、对性侵犯和骚扰接受度的增加有关。但是，尽管是最有害的消费产品之一，色情制品基本上不受政府监管。

2. Porn rewires the brain.
Sexually explicit material triggers mirror neurons in the male brain. These neurons, which are involved with the process for how to mimic a behavior, contain a motor system that correlates to the planning out of a behavior. In the case of pornography, this mirror neuron system triggers arousal, which leads to sexual tension and a need for an outlet. Seeking a release through porn leads to hormonal and neurological consequences, which are designed to bind a man to the object he is focusing on.

二、色情制品重塑了大脑

色情内容会触发男性大脑中的镜像神经元。 这些神经元涉及如何模仿行为的过程，包含一个与行为计划相关的运动系统。 在色情的刺激下，这种镜像神经元系统会触发唤醒，从而导致性紧张和对出口的需求。通过色情制品寻求释放，导致荷尔蒙和神经系统的后果，这些后果旨在将一个人与他所关注的对象捆绑在一起。


明确的性爱材料会触发男性大脑中的镜像神经元。这些神经元涉及如何模仿行为的过程，包含一个运动系统，与行为的规划有关。在色情制品的情况下，这种镜像神经元系统引发了兴奋，从而导致性紧张和需要一个出口。通过色情制品寻求释放，导致荷尔蒙和神经系统产生一种结果，这种结果旨在将一个男人与他所关注的对象捆绑在一起。

“In God’s plan, this would be his wife, but for many men it is an image on a screen,” says William M. Struthers, associate professor of psychology at Wheaton College. “Pornography thus enslaves the viewer to an image, hijacking the biological response intended to bond a man to his wife and therefore inevitably loosening that bond.”

惠顿学院心理学副教授威廉·斯特拉瑟斯（William M. Struthers）说：“在上帝的计划中，这个对象本应是他的妻子，但对许多男人来说，这只是屏幕上的一个图像。因此，色情制品将观众奴役在一个图像之中，劫持了旨在将男人与妻子联系在一起的生物反应，因此会不可避免地削弱这种联系。”

3. Porn makes us complicit in sex trafficking.
In October, the owners and employees of two popular porn websites were charged with sex trafficking and other crimes, including coercing several women to engage in sex videos that were posted on the internet. Although prosecution for such crimes is relatively rare, the porn industry is deeply connected to sex trafficking. According to the anti-trafficking nonprofit, Rescue:Freedom, in nine countries, 49 percent of sexually exploited women said that pornography was made of them while they were being sold for sex.

“[W]ould you buy from a company if you knew that some, but not all, of their products were made with child labor? Would you support a store that abused some, but not all, of their female employees?” the anti-porn group Fight the New Drug asks. “How can it be okay to say that ‘porn is okay because participants give their consent,’ when we know for a fact that some—probably much more than you think—do not?”

三、色情使我们成为性交易的同谋

10月，两个火爆的色情网站的所有者和员工被指控犯有性贩运和其他罪行，包括胁迫几名妇女录制性视频并在互联网上发布。尽管对此类罪行的起诉相对罕见，但色情行业与性贩运有着深刻的联系。根据反人口贩运的非营利组织“救援：自由”提供的数据，在9个国家中，49%的受性剥削的妇女说，她们在被贩卖的同时，也被迫拍了色情影像。

“如果你知道一家公司的部分产品（而非全部）是用童工制造的，你会从该公司购买吗？如果一家商店虐待它的部分女员工（也非全部），你会支持它吗？”反色情组织 “对抗新毒品”质问道，“当我们知道有些人（人数可能比你想的要多）实际上不同意时，怎么能说‘色情也OK，因为参与者表示同意’呢？"

And as Marlo Safi adds, “If someone contributed even one view to the 28.5 billion views of free porn online in the last year, he may have watched a victim of sex trafficking appearing under duress on camera.” Just as no Christian should risk harm to their own body by view porn, we should not risk the harm to other people’s bodies by creating a demand for this evil product. By condoning the consumption of porn, we are complicit in the rape and sexual assault of thousands of children, women, and men.

正如马里奥·萨菲（Marlo Safi）所补充的那样，“去年网上的色情信息被免费观看了285亿次，如果有人哪怕贡献了一次点击量，他就有可能看到一个性交易的受害者被胁迫出现在镜头前。" 正如没有基督徒应该冒着伤害自己身体的风险观看色情片一样，我们也不应该冒着伤害其他人身体的风险，创造对这种邪恶产品的需求。纵容色情消费，我们就成了同谋，参与了对千千万万的儿童、妇女和男人的强奸和性侵。”


4. Porn harms children.
As Prevent Child Abuse America notes, children or adolescents may experience autonomic sexual arousal at the sight of pornography, which can confuse them into thinking they “like” what they see, when in fact their bodies are reacting instinctively without the “approval” of their brain. Additionally, children and adolescents can become “de-sensitized” to pornography exposure and this can result in acting out sexualized behaviors with other children and engaging in high-risk sexual experiences by adolescents.

四、色情制品伤害了儿童。

正如 “防止虐待儿童协会”所指出的，儿童或青少年在看到色情制品时，可能会出现自主的性兴奋，这可能会混淆他们的视线，使他们认为自己 "喜欢 "所看到的东西，而事实上，他们身体是本能的反应，没有得到他们大脑的 "认可"。此外，儿童和青少年对色情制品的接触会变得 "脱敏"，这可能会导致青少年与其他儿童发生性行为，并进行高风险的性体验。

Many well-meaning people say that it’s the duty of parents to keep their children from being exposed to pornography. But as research has shown, it is nearly impossible for parents to do it alone.

许多善意的人说，让孩子远离色情是父母的责任。 但正如研究表明的那样，父母几乎不可能独自做到这一点。

Ten years ago, a Université de Montréal researcher, funded by the Interdisciplinary Research Center on Family Violence and Violence Against Women, launched a study to examine the effects of pornography on men. “We started our research seeking men in their twenties who had never consumed pornography,” researcher Simon Louis Lajeunesse sais. “We couldn’t find any.”

十年前，蒙特利尔大学的一名研究人员在家庭暴力和对妇女暴力跨学科研究中心的资助下，发起了一项研究，研究色情制品对男性的影响。研究员西蒙-路易斯-拉吉尼斯（Simon Louis Lajeunesse）说：“们开始研究，寻找那些从未消费过色情制品的20多岁男子。我们一个也没找到。”

Porn consumption is so ubiquitous among the young that an estimated 93 percent of boys and 62 percent of girls younger than 18 have seen porn. There is likely no product in America that is having a more nefarious effect on shaping our children’s views of sexuality than porn. The only solution is to impose stronger regulations—and ban as much as possible—to protect our families and the future of America.

色情消费在年轻人中无处不在，估计93%的男孩和62%的18岁以下女孩都看过色情片。在美国，可能没有任何产品比色情制品对塑造我们孩子的性观念有更邪恶的影响力。唯一的解决办法是实施更有力的监管——尽可能地禁止，以保护我们的家庭和美国的未来。

Sometimes invoking Lovejoy’s Law (“What about the children?”) is an excuse to limit people’s freedom. But porn is a product so irredeemably evil it should not exist. Rather than limiting an individual’s freedom, by limiting access to porn we are preventing their enslavement.

尽管有时候用孩子做挡箭牌是限制人们自由的借口，但是，色情是一种无可救药的邪恶产品，它不应该存在。 通过限制对色情的访问，我们不是限制个人自由，而是防止他们被奴役。

In every age and culture, certain habits of sinful behavior are particularly common and overwhelmingly destructive. In American today one of the most soul-destroying habits is consumption of pornography. If we truly love our neighbor—especially children and the sexually exploited—we should stop making excuses and start supporting a ban on pornography.

在每个时代和文化中，某些罪恶的行为习惯特别普遍，而且具有压倒性的破坏力。在今天的美国，最摧残灵魂的习惯之一是消费色情制品。如果我们真的爱我们的邻舍——特别是儿童和被性剥削的人——我们应该停止找借口，开始支持禁止色情制品。

* If you’re a Christian whose political principles put you at odds with the standards of God, the commonsense protection of children, and the promotion of human flourishing, you might want to re-evaluate your view to ensure you aren’t making an idol of your political philosophy.

【注*】如果你是一名基督徒，所持守的政治原则使你与上帝的标准、对儿童的常识性保护和促进人类福祉的理念背道而驰，你可能要重新评估你的观点，以确保你没有把你的政治哲学当作偶像。


Joe Carter is an editor for The Gospel Coalition, author of The Life and Faith Field Guide for Parents, the editor of the NIV Lifehacks Bible, and coauthor of How to Argue Like Jesus: Learning Persuasion from History’s Greatest Communicator. He also serves as an associate pastor at McLean Bible Church in Arlington, Virginia.

Joe Carter（乔·卡特）是福音联盟的编辑，同时也在弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿（Arlington, Virginia）的麦克林圣经教会（McLean Bible Church）担任牧师。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/4-reasons-christians-ban-porn/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：4 Reasons Christians Should Support Banning Pornography

作者： JOE CARTER

本文简介：色情材料危险邪恶，从内到外侵蚀着个体与社会，它腐蚀大脑，伤害儿童，间接参与了性贩运，每个基督徒都应当抵制它。

本文栏目：时事

本文标签：法律, 色情, 儿童