/

Speed

00:00:00

Meeting minutes

Related links

Add link

Click "Edit" to add meeting minutes

Transcript

Create Clip

Hitchcock film

own films

many Hitchcock films

四国

more films

others films

pure film

silent films

film director

Hitchcock thing

Hitchcock movie

loss film

popular film

film makers

first time

way Hitchcock

different audience

first people

own movies

Sure.

Why do these Hitchcock film stand up? Well, they don't look old fashioned? But I don't know the answer.

Clarkson baskets or you still tell more regular. Characteristic. Passkey sausage. Yes.

My dad was a big movie buff. And it was one of the books it was in his library. From the time I was about 7 years old. He knew I wanted to make movies so he recommended to me. I remember picking over it and I must have read it sections of like there's the Oscar Homolka sequence from sabotage where sort of lays out all of the cutting pattern.

It's not even a book anymore. It's like a stack of papers because you know, I had a paper back and it's just you know.

You know it's got a rubber band around it in 1966. Francois Truffaut published one of the few indispensable books on movies. A series of conversations with Alfred Hitchcock about his career. Title by title.

It was a window into the world of cinema that I hadn't had before becausw. It was a director simultaneously talking about his own work, but doing so in a way that was utterly unpretentious and had no pomposity.

There was starting to be these kind of erudite conversations about the art form. But before was the first one where you really. Felt that. No, they were talking about the craft of it.

That was incredibly fascinating to me that these 2 people from very different worlds. We're both doing the same job how they would talk about things.

Leave the tree for sewage cock elite PS is still there, so nervous.

Yeah, I think it. Conclusively changed people's opinions about Hitchcock and so Hitchcock began to be taken much more seriously.

At that time, the the general consensus and climate. Was a bullying? As usual. By the establishment as to what serious cinema is. So it was really revolutionary based on what the Truffaut Hitchcock was we became radicalized as Moviemakers. It's almost as if somebody had taken away to far shoulders and said yes. We can embrace this we could go.

In 1962, Hitchcock was 63 years old household name in television. And a virtual franchise unto himself. It already been known for many years as the Master of suspense and he had scared the wits out of audiences all over the world with Psycho and in the process. Upended our idea of what a movie was.

How's the most dire horrible events took place? Let's go inside.

He had just completed his 40th feature the birds.

Truffaut half Hitchcock Sage had made only 3 features but he was already an internationally renowned and acclaimed. Filmmaker.

New Yorkers rally presentee may feel my New York on demand agency. Polynesia lacement monitors located messiness prefer a country cities, Cochlear to respect it anymore.

Truffaut wrote Hitchcock, a letter he proposed a series of in depth discussions of Hitchcock's entire body of work in movies.

We are very. A laxative Pasadena tells you the visual.

For Truffaut, the book on Hitchcock was every bit as important as one of his own films and it required just as much time and preparation.

Just recently I only would like not to miss it and Scott in summer stereo pavilion, so tell it to resume that AO. He also founded the new building at Diocese of this warlike, they be called character to DQ Impala. Cinematic pleasure on a map on in the back.

The meeting was documented by the great photographer Philippe Haussman. Hitchcock and Truffaut. They were from different generations and different cultures and they had different approaches to their work, but both men lived for an through the cinema.

My mind is strictly visually.

Hitchcock was born with the movies.

There's no such thing as a face is nonexistent until the light hits him. There was no such thing as a line, it's just light and shade. Function of pure cinema. No is the placing of 2 or 3 pieces of film together to create a single idea.

Hitchcock was trained as an engineer.

Then moved into advertising true that I went into the designing of what were in those days of silent films the art title?

Art direction script writing and production duties.

Play said how would you like to direct a picture I said, I've never thought about it, I was 23. My wife was to be my assistant. We're not married yet did you punk Omar you remember not living in sin? I mean on video?

Hitchcock had many close collaborators, but none of them was closer than alma reveal. She was credited on some films uncredited on many others, but Hitchcock consulted his wife on every movie, he ever made.

Larger was the first time I'd exercised any style.

He's making floors out of glass so you can show people. Walking in circles in the apartment above he's he's playing with all those. Things that make cinema fun and magic. The tricks of it.

He was also conceptual with the way he approached many of these films. This movie, I have an idea for a way that I've never worked before. This is somebody who's mind is racing filled with ideas and that's why you know, we refer to him all the time.

Do you realize the squad van will be here any moment really Oh my God? Why have you been? Woman or something well, not just bad but this but you slept with men.

He directed the first British talking night.

Not Alice Customer Bread William.

I mean in Chelsea, you must?

And then in 1934, he made the first 100% Hitchcock picture.

Tom rich was the beginning of the man who knew too much. Place of our honey.

And, of course, Hollywood beckoned.

I wasn't attracted to Hollywood is a place. Would come on the wall that had no interest? What had interest from me was getting inside that studio.

無理があったからこそ、四国はそこまで慣れ、またしつこくがいて、アメリカ映画っていうのが、僕が夢見ているアメリカ役もぐんと更新されたという。

Work in the four leaves.

But in the 50s, he sword.

I have a murder on my conscious, but it's not my murder.

Curiosity of James Stewart in this story of a romance shadowed by the terror of a horrifying secret. Look John. Cold. Diamond.

It was a spell that was cast with those films in the 50s into the 60s. And it's special. Blessed time for me because I saw them as they came out.

Truffaut began as a critic in the early 50s. He started at the great French film magazine. Hi Ada, cinema for the writers at Chi, a soon to become the film makers of the Nouvelle Vauge Hitchcock's greatness is an artist with self evident.

Admit fill mortgage corporate oceanport and honest rather laugh. Permission version separate.

Before they made their own movies, the kayak critics erected a new pantheon of cinema. The Directores, who were the true artist. The authors who wrote with the camera, the auteur's.

My point in this hotel. G cilenti visualization of total printing. Hotel D know Parker to the film discussion Bonita Center and were some of MLD learn Primavera finish cooking. Presented by sample new Columbia film. Ella tuna professional dancer visually similar command.

La Nouvelle Vague. Would be minimal? It would do division senior asked on the veneer, but these are loose in a market, and are a loose and is artist.

Being an individual artist meant self exposure. Pouring all of yourself into your movie all of your fears and obsessions and fetishes. Just like Hitchcock did.

Altogether. To Skillet airfield bonsu scan plan, we please. Besides possibly my literacy, Elaine fascination.

And the power was killed.

Hitchcock often told the story of being sent to the police station as a boy where he was locked up for a few minutes as a symbolic. Richmond. He said that it led to a lifelong fear of the police.

But Truffaut really was locked up. He was delivered to the police by his own father and then sent to a juvenile detention center.

She's happy facade Donuts mobile no estimate.

An episode, he put into his autobiographical first feature.

Someone that's been evil, Azula will it until it's at home paper example later Sapele Ramona Daily?

Truffaut had a fierce attachment to freedom. It's there in all of his films. And it sent him in search of another father. A father who would liberate him. He found the great film critic Andre Bazin, who virtually adopted Truffaut and brought him to Calle do cinema. He found genre noir. And Roberto Rossellini. And he found Alfred Hitchcock. Hitchcock had free Truffaut as an artist. And truthful wanted to reciprocate by freeing Hitchcock from his reputation as a light entertainer. And that's the basis on which they started their conversation.

Let me check with him and see if he's running yet. You started. Alright we're running now OK fine.

On their sub minoso layer.

Voter Zelda film your type of picture. Laser printer Plezia People for some blanket in German.

But pretend bite reduced but not to be fooled. They begrudge them where they give their pleasure grudgingly. Pleasure I don't mean amusement now there there.

There obviously they're going to sit there and say.

Show me we will be demoing one about these modern work.

They expect to anticipate I know what's coming next. I have to say do you.

Zelda gear satisfy example public event carefully and critique Oscar effectiveness. It is anniversary gala by some loss.

Yes, but you see to me. Penalty for the sacrifices.

Doesn't help you know?

Who's ever not be trued notepad? No fondant Benavidez.

He avoided if it's useful.

I have a favorite little, saying to myself logic is doll. Right.

Is confirm at noise? He added a few years or suspected now for us to define suspense that is to say? Are there many forms of suspense lesion guava Apple demo somewhat naively? Chris suspense account on Apple is when one is afraid so Q 4, which is wrong, no.

Easy Virtue. The young man was proposing to this woman resume. Announce she said. I'll call you up when I get back around 12 o'clock. Do the. I don't know why should he was the operator on this telephone switchboard.

The stone that was fun.

That girl is in suspense it fee at this response and she was relieved at the latest sooner, she refer the suspense was over. Woman said yes. Spence doesn't always have fears.

This is your mother can't watch this happen this summer.

He talks about things contextual ising what the work of a director truly is at its most fundamental and most simple.

Emotionally, the size of the image is very important. Dealing with space. This bus you may need space and use it dramatically 'cause they said the special sauce and not much more. When the girl front back on the sofa sofa. I kept the camera back and use this space to indicate the nothingness. For which she was shrinking.

If you have some kind of understanding of. Color design and light directing is really 3 things editing behavior overtime. And then controlling moments that should be really fast and make him slow. And moments that should be really slow and making him fast.

It is indeed a solemn occasion. I switch you over to our microphone near the power she said that. Yes, that's what film is 4 to either contract times super contractility or extended whatever you wish would expand. Completely.

Hitchcock and away was the master let's say sculptor of moments in time to take you through. A sequence or to direct your perception in a way where he could elongate timer telescope it.

Or that a moment when you have to stop time. Right.

The more popular film 9400 blows through experience do Sir. Yeah, long found an error. Uncle Transamerica, we can connect to personal care.

Describe to me in detail what the action was.

Only theoretically is awful, he supported on our unit credit card cut into their mother before the boy saw Ellen avoid pilot.

But she didn't see it, she was not looking at the child yet. Or positive. Salome. Show the mother, who saw them walking away.

I'm asking from a story point of view? What was the intention.

Also stated more quickly do city view download.

Ld issues with shocking review I would have hoped that there was nothing spoken.

To fully balanced list for Olympus are fragile eerily film admirably media me like a student.

Junior Jefferson.

Coco. If it S me Lady Pharaoh's Secret Hitchcock's source absolute more mathematical construction duty cycles each pocket until recently pass.

I think I think about them. The visuals are so. Graphic and precise. There's a lot to learn from that.

He said that when I'm on the set. I'm not on the set. I'm watching it on the screen. That's the key to Hitchcock in away. I mean he sees the picture in his head. I imagine he just sat alone in these images came to him and he just never questioned it.

You don't feel like he's ever not confident. In. Every shot. That one guy you don't really question it always works within his world kind of perfectly.

要注意だと思っています。特殊の得意な映画の歴史の中でも、映画の中心にいるようなふりをして、実際オークの作品は以下の中心にあるんですが、作家性という点でみると、もう極端に端っこにいる人だろうと思います。

四国トリュフの中で語っていることはぁーい。一一あーそうだ、自分の自分の映画を撮る人間として心構えがを取るべきだと、バイブルのように思いつつ、絶対に四国のような生まれだけはしてはならないと固く禁じています。

同じおめーで有名なキスシーンは、まさに悪魔的なカットだと思います。何度見てもですね、あのキスシーンってずっと二人の顔をとっているんですけど、顔をとっている分、顔以外のところはどうなってるか全く分からないです。食べてない。

Even if they go all the way across the room. He's going to move with them in the case and the actors are going to say this is the most bizarre thing we're walking well were kissing. But he knows how it fits in the frame and he knows that the tension won't be broken and the spell won't be broken.

This is a very strange love affair. Maybe the fact that you don't love me.

I was giving the public, the great privilege of embracing Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman together, so it was kind of. Temporary menage a TOI. And the actors hate doing it. They felt dreadfully uncomfortable there's something in the manner in which they had to clean. And I said, well I don't care how you feel. I really know what it's gonna look like on the screen.

Want to schema Jersey laparoscopy.

Obviously had contentious relationship in some cases with actors. You know, he definitely solicited movie stars. You know, there's no doubt in reading the book that. But he's very cognizant of of the value of of faces that people want to see. And sometimes the complications that come with that baggage.

Montgomery Clift is transcendent and I confess he's great but. I don't think Hitchcock cared if they had a good time or not or how they felt about obviously that wasn't a huge concern of his.

Sometimes you need a look to convey something or to look at something and react. I had a conflict with Clift. I said Monty I want you to look up at the hotel. So he said to me, I don't know whether I would look up to the hotel. I said why not? It should I may be occupied by the people below. I said, I want you to look up to the hotel window. And, please, do so now I was telling the audience across the street is the hotel so an actor is going to try and interfere with me organizing my geography. That's why all actors are cattle.

Simple question you could transact only tie with Hitchcock.

You get a sense of a kind of a self contained psychology that we were going to explore his obsessions and what he was interested in. I think his collaboration, there didn't go much farther than that.

Acting it's a great part of Moviemaking. But it's not the only part of Moviemaking and I think a Hitchcock was one of the first people to say there is a structure to this language.

He probably did more for the psychological underpinnings of characterization in motion pictures than anyone.

And on top of it wouldn't allow any of sectors to explore that kind of behavior. On set, it was the rigor of dramatizing it in narrative terms and then not allowing for it to stick spill over the edge of the buckets.

Coming out of World War 2 which is the worst recorded war in history. Destruction of civilization. No peace or. Comfort from religion. The paranoia anxiety. Who are we what are we? In post World War 2 it was a rupture change, particularly in the nature of what a performance or. Persona on screen would be. And that is that the actor is the main instrument really. And this is all expressed I think in Brando James Dean. And Clift. Alfred Hitchcock was able to get the soul of the actors on screen. Where was Cary Grant Eva Marie Saint Grace Kelly, Jimmy Stewart? But it comes up another tradition.

I'd love to see. De Niro Pacino Dustin Hoffman. To see that School of actor. You know try to. Flourish under this under the Iron umbrella. Of this is what this next 3 and a half seconds is about.

I would like to ask you do you feel it's too much trouble having to direct actors in their acting?

Such informal attorney there is an intermediary formula come to parallel. We connected to say to speak with an actor or swap resonate the evening after dinner if energy log and then created ID.

Africell emotes vocabulary with the words which he himself has been using a part of his own vocabulary words that mean you have to write overnight super notice waffle on there.

We don't really seem to exam. Memorial Qasm Santasi Tentacle, it more obviously this was completely improvised. Second, we mode. Now, fast, so there should be democracy around with improve our vacation.

Which are very dangerous for the curb for the curve for the shape of the shape of the picture.

I offered him trouble as to whether I cling to the what I called the rising curve shapes teleporting whether I shouldn't experiment. Experiment with loose form.

Dude.

I'm not even sometimes it's very hard because if you work for character direct they'll take you along where they want to go and I'm like the old lady with the Boy Scouts. I don't wanna do that way. And this is always been a conflict.

It seems to me, he finds material that he can kind of you know it's applied science, he can sort of apply? The Hitchcock thing. To this story. And now I have my series of linear plot devices leading to a fall from a high place.

Quite obviously I'm. I suppose like any artist who paints or right, I'm limited to a certain field.

Domain name file control who cinema gym. Polydata tunage your ear pain from the trust pharmacy only scenario that transform assume mature women is true curve that also known. On the upper control, which cook. You look good, cookies, cookie have OT in class DD totally to Europe. Key Lupa materialist. We captured all of easy blow kiss easy informed spirituality.

I went high because I didn't want to spend a lot of footage on sleep or getting out hoses and starting to put out a fire collision key software or cookies.

Eating your food.

If you play it a long way away you aren't committed to any detail.

It wasn't just simply to show the whole town and how the birds are coming in. They took on another kind of apocalyptic religious field it was omniscient. It's the cleansing of the of the Earth.

Whose point of view is it when you cut 2 above everything. God's point of view or we all being judged from above you know that that kind of suggests that.

Well address papers now exactly for me that angle is always something that has a kind of religious element to it.

This girl was accepted it consider Comma Command Artist Cattery.

Go off the record.

You know you have Martin Balsam, going up the stairs right and that's so deliberately slow. You just know he's going to get it, but you don't expect that high angle. There's something a mission about it that's kind of frightening.

Double team. Assault rifle Odbc original see yes.

Shovels restaurant bar exam. Don't have I loosened and culpability. 2 more.

Has something to feel guilty about?

They're asking have you ever hear Topaz? It cuts to the defector and the camera sort of up above him a little bit and you see as I shift. The eye is not covered that means the angle had just be right. Now you know, he's lying. What's that poem? If you may leave the religion.

But The Hound of Heaven is always there. That infuses everything the whole thought process in the storytelling process. And continually turn our hearts from wickedness. And from worldly things. To the.

Secret. Cook appropriate somebody had transferred it billeti you complete the wrong man. We practically don't message me on criminal cases transferred capability. Calabaza truly feel about the many other people famous group yes or transferred.

Political bubble loop over the years I will keep visiting it by watching it, watching it over and over again. This is the average man decent man it should say. Family kids suddenly picked up John and Chris. And calling me and everything. Everything points to him doing it. And you know, he didn't one. 2. 3. 4.

You're sure. Absolutely. Japan's compassion from comes a sample shipped developing concession, Aviva down Patty Pressac Jest Shack Momoshiki object.

Those extraordinary inserts where can we find is just sitting on the punk? He looks at their cell around him and. It cuts to different sections in the cell. What makes you feel oppressed? The lock on the door, but from what angle. Is it really his point of view? All these things are remarkable, I think.

Today I perceived once in a Snowcat Alley, the first sender prior one man. Yes.

Lumala Guatemala multiple missions. Evolutif LOL Computers surpass a loom alcee. Lucas systems as well traffic engineer locality in your son. This azu manner.

Maximum mortgage cooks. Or speak that are duping Blass came in altered on film, yeah, I'm to laugh and you seem.

Is it really true blue? We will have it restaurant not a lot now.

If we do have one senses in your work the importance of dreams.

Daydreams probably.

Will be automatic mall jeweler demanded you have case of our festival period illustrated well.

That's probably me within myself.

Ask about trilogy can satisfy parallelly critic. Logic derived. Look.

I think it occurs becausw I'm never satisfied with the ordinary, but can't do well at the ordinary.

Hitchcock keeps refering to, he sort of fetish objects. Keys and handcuffs and ropes and stuff. Which are kind of dream objects? Which have kind of Freudian wait to them?

Come down. Their perception this object, so yeah, they should schedule that could eat. I keep running problem. You keep hanging criminals or green upper torso asociality should social distance control is similar similar. Sacama uniquely sniffy invitation iffy sketching fiance, Pasco Signifi. Comedowns are revenue showed me Kelly likely Dessange Javidan Wazzu. Kiss kiss of Lydia don't on verge Boca. It on Super.

Download premiere elements of it took yarn plum, Magnifica Lemaire level as usual version poo. In contrast, is not really benefit even trivial move model actress Kittrell Auntie. La Mega Timber is even with. A smaller image spins Calafia video Sammy to use key on my cell. If you can't say I've except social set must do further here come like that done in normal most components Ella Bella Betty.

出身星野時前の。

Seront エックスサーバーピュアそうするさ、あのうにい japanese you can do want らばんど。

Unique. The motion picture, the way it was abandoned for some came in. Continum new song.

The craft was of course, developed in silent cinema first. So the whole idea was how do I tell the story without any dialogue? This is a brilliant way to train someone to think visually an part of the reason the films have that incredible dream like feeling.

024 is young can you lose? South Africa. Bottle in your own tissue.

So many Hitchcock films would work silently. You could watch a Hitchcock film without any dialogue or music and I think you'd still get really high percentage of it.

Plastic you know folks will say.

コンプレックス。

They're meant to achieve realism, but it's more of AI should put the spirit of realism. It is an objective.

Personnel. 1211.

Vertigo Cassette, Andrew Finley Blue pretty deeply poetic and dramatic man. But with the Mac don't County River Unispace do long-term care controls the contemplative can parables atrophy. Social construction.

Yeah, but you're dealing with the point of view of an emotional man. Mrs. Cook download all Suze are was intrigued with the efforts to create and a woman came into use in the image of a dead woman.

He fell apart imagine some loft.

You think that you can hide what your interests are what your what your print interests are what your Noble interests are. What your fascination czar if you think you can hide that in your work as a? As a film director you're not you know, an I think that he was one of the first guys who said. I'ma go with it. I'm just gonna I'm gonna be. I gotta be me. In the case of his best work there's a more direct umbilicus to his. Subconscious. Certainly I think that's true of Vertigo.

The 6 psychological side is that you have a man creating a sex image that he can't go to bed with her until he's got. Fact so the thing he wants to go to bed with should be back from your face and pendant the neck.

I told her that I told you that.

We tried it or metaphorically indulged in a form of necrophilia that's what it really was. The things you see that I liked and felt most when she came back from having her hair made long and it wasn't up. This means she has tripped but won't take her knickers off. You see, she says, Alright and she goes into the bar and he is waiting. He's waiting for the woman to undress and come out.

He also knew. Both.

And while he was looking at that door he was getting an erection. We will now tell a story shut the machine off.

What I love about Vertigo is just it's so perverted it's just so perverted?

Judy. Straight down to talk about this. Doing what God look do.

I've always felt that the most interesting view of Vertigo. Would be? Her story. Your hair? Judy, please, it can't matter to you. It's almost more honest than the guys point of view.

File interchange will it do it?

I guess taking Scotty's point of view was will you love me Hitchcock's point of view? Yes.

Yes, I enjoyed it yes. We wish you know, I had Vera miles tested and costume. We were ready to go with it, she went pregnant. And that was going to be the part that I was going to bring her out. She was under contract to me, but I lost interest. I couldn't get the rhythm going again. With that, silly girl. I don't think he would have been able to take Vera miles. Into that Judy place. Into that real kindof, a sunny place so I think that he surmounted his restriction in that way. I saw the film fairly early in my life isn't filling person. I thought through Marty.

It became a loss film. So to speak. In it, I'm talking to all the film makers in the 70s were trying to find copies of it. Some people had 16 so it became the picture.

We're looking for but it was kind of forbidden document kind of sacred document that only certain insiders had privileged to just kind of hard to imagine. In today's World of indiscriminate access to virtually everything. The number of people who have seen vertical weren't that many Hitchcock wasn't talking about it that much 'cause it wasn't very successful.

Kiss kiss. The hole in the story. The husband, who pushed his wife off the tower. How did he know that Stewart wasn't going to run up those stairs?

In the case of Vertigo, the machinations of the plot. Well, they do work, they functioned and they function rather brilliantly but. The subtext seems to be bubbling up almost to the point where it's text.

I can't really say that I believe the plot an I don't take any of this story seriously. I mean as a realistic story. So the plan is just a line that you can hang things on. And the things that he hangs on there all aspects of. You know cinema poetry. And that's a film that I can't really tell where things start man I don't care. Or when he's following her in the streets in the car. What is he looking for? Once you're looking for.

The frustration is on his face and you like where is this going and you realize no that's totally connected. To who he is in the film.

The city itself is a character. The architecture itself. The mystery of old San Francisco.

Painting. We cannot see Kim Novak's face looking at that painting how important her gaze must be? But no it's not. Because it's all a ruse. The connection that Kim Novak as without painting is bullshit. Right the only gays that matters. Is Jimmy Stewart's gaze watching? The curl in the hair and how it's similar to the painting on the wall.

I'm sure he didn't shoot coverage from the front someone like me, I would do that. We're not that good. We don't understand the power of the image the way that.

He did not want to get out of this for me.

This whole business of remaking or yes. We get it. Everyone is talking about the fetishism of it will take it fine. It's good, but it's this extraordinary sense of loss. That, he's trying to fill that void. Maybe maybe it reaches out to everyone that because of that. You know, we could bring our own sense of melancholy a loss to it.

Judy I tell you this these past few days have been the first happy days. I've known a year.

I know it's about desire, but we all understand that we all understand the idea of desire that's part of what makes us us.

I think Kim Novak coming out of the bathroom is the single greatest moment in history movies. At that moment. Everything that Hitchcock was about and everything that cinema is about. Comes together in the most beautiful way, which is. Yes, it's a fantasy, but the fantasy is real to him.

That Kiss is so extraordinary. That's the one moment where he gets some kind of fulfillment. And then after that, it's time to go there.

Which where you made your mistake. Judy you shouldn't keep souvenirs of a killing. You should?

It's a world that he creates that reflects I think what it is to be alive and what it is to live in fear. A good fear the natural fear, but fear just this just just the same. Of just the human condition of who we are. It's more than story. It's more than a story. It really is like living a lifetime with him.

It affirmed that titanium Sydney on this. It'll break even. Comma and the shape is considered? So yes.

It's tricky you know that people will learn the wrong lessons from failures just as they sometimes learn the wrong lessons from success. And the thing that I find so depressing about Hollywood is how often people really feel the first 3 months of anyone's response to your film that's it. Carved into marble that was the response. It's not true wasn't true for Vertigo.

There is sometimes a tendency among film makers to get the audience.

The world is yours.

I personally I'm interested in the audience. I mean that one's film should be designed for 2000 seats and not one seat. This to me is the power of the cinema. It is the greatest known mass medium there is in the world.

Virginia Beach Cockily foolishly Hotties Elephant yesterday, so this emotional ative more trouble.

So don't kill Arriva Cosmetic communicate issues. Delicate Obscur. Didn't face) accept tableau partly public. Facebook. Yep, this obsession Contacts on the family theme of Accra public polar public comma measure V from one community in passion was answer. Holger Wendy class under more trivia track occasion says done packing corner.

Directores of Hitchcock's generation, the ones who came up under the studio system where all mindful of their audience. But in Hitchcock's case, it ran deeper than that. His films are made in a dialogue with the public it's close almost intimate.

It doesn't matter where the film goes over a film. If you designed it correctly would have plenty collect the Japanese audience should scream at the same time as the Indian.

Could you still play an audience the way Hitchcock? Can they do? But it's a different audience an it's different playing. So the audience has been raised on. Films, which are very loud. Which have a climax every 2 seconds?

Now we are so humbled by stories and visual hyperbole that it's a very different world in trying to move the needle in terms of. Getting humans to accept your theses. Hitchcock's coming out of a world where everything was a proscenium and everything was structured and he was able to take that structure in Bend, it and. Twisted and exaggerated to to greater or lesser effect. By the time you get to Psycho. People are watching television. And Ed Geene is informing what's happening in the movies. We're starting to borrow from the real world.

I believe so yes in Wisconsin.

Wisconsin compare.

Psycho in order to get the audience effects.

So delicate cycle.

Pavel is officially join I would say that this is pretty well as cinematic as a lot of pictures. Really? She was a very interesting construction. I've tried for a long time to play the audience. Let's say we were playing them like an organ.

Why don't you call your boss and tell him you're taking the rest of the afternoon off?

The scene with John Gavin and generally in the beginning. Element there is the bra. Ok. But it shot very simply. But ominously there's something ominous about it. The scenes in the office are kind of Alright, you know with the Texan.

I'm buying this house for my baby's wedding present. $40,000 cash for his style.

The blandness of the scenes, the blandness of the framing. Is just really a kind of a bridge to get you to the next major moment I think his instinct is right, and telling stories like that.

I never carry more than I can afford to lose how benign we make these images that just. Connect the dots. I don't even want it in the office over the weekend put it in a safe deposit box in the banking costs only $800,000. And I used to complete television unit to do it.

But unique abilities. You're hopeful affair flirting with you, I guess, he must have noticed.

My wedding, it was necessary to make the? Robbery and what happened to the girl purposely on the long side to get an audience absorbed with her flight. Where I slowed up was when I came to the scenes at indicated time and trouble?

Which got really does love to surprise people and to take you in unusual directions. He sort of thrived on that and he was very proud of that. That's what is cinemas kind of based on the beginning of Psycho. It's one of the Great Misdirections.

He is playing with your expectations of where you're supposed to be in a movie where you're supposed to be in Hitchcock movie where you're supposed to be in a universal movie.

You can argue the value of Janet Leigh's perfo. You can say well. That's a little flatter this that'll kabuchi. Maybe all of those things are leading you to believe. As an audience member there's there's a bigger cumulative effect. She's servicing an expectation.

The best scenes for me are once he must have spent time on. The driving shots. You had to spend time on those. Particularly the points of view somehow. And the framing of Janet Leigh in the center of the frame. With top of the steering wheel in the bottom of the frame. cause you can make a choice, you can go above the steering wheel. You know you can go further out, but then maybe you won't see your eyes as well. So it's like the perfect size.

In quite a hurry. Yes, I didn't intend to sleep so long. I almost had an accident last night, the same. But the policeman.

Of course, the framing of him staring into the into the car. Yes, we know with the glasses, he scary. But there's something about the restraint of those frames. C and the more you restrain. The better it is when the explosion happened. And on the way to the explosion. There are these meditative states driving. For me. I told you all that cash and there's a sense of movement head movement ahead.

She steals money then she decides to drive away, then she becomes guilty about it. I'm sorry I didn't hear you in all this rain. Then she meets this guy in a motel and he's telling her all his problems.

A few years ago.

Mother met this man and he he talked her into building.

This motel you're watching wonder what happened to bring the money back, then. What is Anthony Perkins really going to do? You know, Yes, his mother there. Maybe there's gonna be a whole thing going on with the mother and him and her and when he died too.

It was just too great a shock for.

I mean, you're really you're taking down a path. But what's great about it is that what your expectations are taken and turned upside down.

Now there are certain rules and he pulled the pin and rolled a grenade into the middle of that that conference room and destroyed all those rules.

The cameras very much with Marian Wright. Even to the point where you have that very famous shot of the shower head. All of a sudden you go from Marion. And the camera is then in this very strange place where you see both her showering. And the shadowy figure behind that kind of Vis Queen curtain.

He did it. With an eye towards having to shift POV 35 minutes into the film.

The very first screening of that film. None of us had a clue what was going to happen. And when that. Murder that shower scene came I've never seen an audience react like that. You could hear a sustained shriek from the audience downstairs. It wasn't like it was like. Like they wanted to close it out. But they couldn't stop watching it. You wanted to close your eyes but you couldn't. Hitch was right you didn't have to build suspense anymore. They were they were they were they were. Blathering idiocy guidance was happened. He couldn't believe what happened. They kept thinking it couldn't have happened. This she's going to be alive. It was every impulse that you have. We're going to movies. It was the first time that going to the movies was dangerous.

7 days, 70 setups. I used a New Girl. A lot and I shot some of it in slow motion. Becauses of covering the breasts you couldn't do it. Quick you couldn't measure it correctly part of Missouri Collector Mall.

That's when you feel like this guy really has his finger on the pulse. Just audience response, but the world in general that the world was ready for a film like that. They didn't know it was, but it was. This was a small story, but it represented probably something much larger on the horizon.

At that time as it is now we expect certain things. And Cook storytelling at that time and says no. I'm not going to give you that. I'm going to give you something else 'cause you think everything is so cool. Yeah, the end of the 50s 60s are going to glorious to us. I think it was really important for it, but we were then. You have. Vietnam you have world revolution, you have. Everything that happened in the 60s and the society is never been the same. That picture really touched upon that I think Psycho. cause you want everything so neat and wrapped up. Well life isn't like that. Even the stories I'm going to tell you not like that now.

My main satisfaction. 80. The film did something to an audience. I really mean that in many ways. I feel my satisfaction distraction art. Achieve something could be controls mass immersion genymotion amass. It wasn't a message. It wasn't some great performance. It wasn't a highly appreciated novel, The Surgeon, Oregon. So Kudos. It was pure film. Terrible thing to make the subject was horrible people with small there were no characters and I know all this.

One thing we choose the use of filming. Of course.

This story. Most audiences often of course.

It is huge and spoke to moon too.

Reaction become emotional. My only pride and that's Why? Picture belongs to kill me 'cause it belongs to us you are nice. Yes, how how do you want to handle this?

I'm the camera man you are the director and you're directing a double portrait of Mr. Each cook for Mr.

Whatever you want any idea that comes really my directing Mr. True for isn't it. Yes, but you direct also yourself. Thank you comma. Here we are here now I'm going to be like this, you see. Now Mr. Truffaut should half turn around and look back to me regarding one like this, you see then. We better have so Gosh Alright. Otherwise, it might make us look like movie directors and God forbid we ever look like that.

The conversation that began in 1962. Extended far beyond the book and bloomed into a real friendship.

Hitchcock and Truffaut spoke and wrote to each other constantly. They read each others script made story and casting suggestions and screened each others films. After the first edition of the book was published in 1966, Truffaut made a movie a year. Sometimes, 2. Hitchcock made only 3 more films. Right to the end, he was haunted by the question he had raised with Truffaut. Should I have experimented more with character and narrative? Did I become a prisoner of my own form?

The same old questions still swirled around him. Was he an artist or an entertainer? Could anyone really claim to be an artist working within the factory conditions of Hollywood.

In America, you curses man hits. In France, we call him, Mercer each code.

2 weeks after the American Film Institute tribute wrote Truffaut. Resigned to the fact that he would never shoot another film, Hitchcock closed his office dismissed his staff and went home.

Francois Truffaut's. Energy. In his love of cinema. Seemed inexhaustible. The idea that he would be dead at the age of 52. Only 4 years after Hitchcock. Was unthinkable? It still is.

The last completed project of Truffaut's life. Published a few months before he died was an updated edition of his book in which he gave us Alfred Hitchcock. Not the television star not the Master of suspense. But Alfred Hitchcock, the artist who wrote with the camera.

I suppose the films with atmosphere suspense and incident are really. My creations as a writer. River.

Don't live in show this. Who's having more threaded personaje auto keys OK for sale? Baskin surveyor, Sucre is substition pass survival allowed. Press alt Jewish caskets, so this see does PK circular permitted asleep. Sure, Yeah. Adjust the final more who said shortly after I say who say Britain, there year released where are the character police here affiliated dilemma or? Sure let's try. My computer.