Against Music*
反对音乐

SEPTEMBER 14, 2009  |  GREG GILBERT


I think the entire evangelical world ought to put a moratorium on any kind of instrumental music, and just chant psalms in their worship services—for the next ten years.*

我认为整个福音派世界应该暂停使用任何形式的器乐，在他们的崇拜仪式中只诵读诗篇--未来十年。

I’ve been amazed since becoming an elder in a local church just how dependent many Christians are on a certain style of music, or certain level of excellence in music. How many times have you heard someone say, for example, “I just can’t worship in that church.”? Or “I just don’t feel like I’m connecting with God there.”

自从成为地方教会的长老以来，我一直很惊讶，许多基督徒是多么依赖某种风格的音乐，或者某种水平的优秀音乐。例如，你有多少次听到有人说："我就是不能在那个教堂里敬拜。"？或者 "我只是觉得我在那里没有与神联系"。


Of course there can be a lot going on there, but I think that many times if you press in on statements like that, what you find behind it all is not very far removed from “I don’t like the music there.” People don’t put it that starkly, mainly because if you do it sounds silly. But I think that’s a lot of what people mean when they say, “I can’t worship there.” The reality is that a single flat-back piano just doesn’t gig their emotions as much as a full electric band does. They don’t get that “transcendent feeling,” so they get discouraged and end up saying they “can’t worship.”

当然，那里可能有很多事情，但我认为，很多时候，如果你按下这样的声明，你会发现其背后与 "我不喜欢那里的音乐 "相差不大。人们不把它说得那么明显，主要是因为如果你这样做，听起来很傻。但我认为这就是人们说 "我不能在那里做礼拜 "时的很多意思。现实情况是，一架平底钢琴不能像一个完整的电子乐队那样调动他们的情绪。他们得不到那种 "超然的感觉"，所以他们感到灰心，最后说他们 "不能敬拜"。

I wonder if the whole “excellence in praise and worship music” phenomenon we’ve seen over the past few years—for all the good it’s done—hasn’t also had some less-than-desirable effects on young Christians. I wonder if it hasn’t created a generation of functional mystics who gauge their relationship with God by emotional experience rather than the objective reality of redemption.

我在想，我们在过去几年看到的 "卓越的赞美和敬拜音乐 "现象--它所做的一切好事--是否也对年轻基督徒产生了一些不太理想的影响。我想知道它是否造就了一代功能性的神秘主义者，他们通过情感体验而不是救赎的客观现实来衡量他们与神的关系。

When I was a sophomore and junior in college, I went to a few of the Passion conferences when they were held in Texas. Those were formative and amazing experiences for me. John Piper “Reformed” me in one earth-shaking sermon from Romans 3, and that has—in one way or another—shaped the trajectory of my life ever since. And the music was excellent—truly wonderful in every way. We sang loud, hands in the air, eyes closed and full of tears sometimes, and I believe I worshipped God through it all.

在我读大二和大三的时候，我参加了几个在德克萨斯州举行的激情会议。那些会议对我来说是形成性的、惊人的经历。约翰-派博在《罗马书》第三章中一次震撼人心的讲道中 "改革 "了我，从那时起，这就以某种方式塑造了我的人生轨迹。音乐也很好，在各方面都非常精彩。我们大声歌唱，双手举起，闭着眼睛，有时充满了泪水，我相信我通过这一切敬拜了上帝。

But then I went back to New Haven, Connecticut. The praise bands were gone, I didn’t have a group of people who’d gone with me and shared that experience, and the churches had a piano and thirty people singing Isaac Watts hymns. That forced me to learn how to stoke the fires of worship with truths and words, and not just with excellent music. I’ve learned how to be emotionally affected by the excellent words of hymns whether they’re played and sung “excellently” or not.

但是后来我回到了康涅狄格州的纽黑文。赞美乐队不在了，我没有一群和我一起去分享那段经历的人，教堂里有一架钢琴和三十个人在唱艾萨克-沃茨的赞美诗。这迫使我学习如何用真理和话语激起敬拜的火焰，而不仅仅是用出色的音乐。我学会了如何在情感上被赞美诗的优秀文字所影响，无论它们是否被弹唱得 "出色"。


There’s a whole generation of young people out there now, though, who aren’t emotionally affected by words, whose fires are only stoked when those words are accompanied by great rhythms, skilled instrumentation, and a certain well-recognizable mood that typically accompanies Christian “praise-and-worship.” And the result is that you have young people church-hopping around town, and one of the main criteria of their shopping is “the worship,” by which more often than not they mean “the music.” You have young Christians feeling discouraged because—despite the fact that they sit under faithful preaching of the word Sunday after Sunday—they say they haven’t “felt close to God” in so long. Maybe there’s something important going on there. But there’s also a good chance, I’d argue, that they just haven’t had a good endorphin rush since the last conference they attended.

不过，现在有整整一代年轻人，他们的情绪并没有受到文字的影响，只有当这些文字伴随着伟大的节奏、熟练的乐器演奏，以及通常伴随着基督教 "赞美和崇拜 "的某种可识别的情绪时，他们的火才会被点燃。其结果是，你会看到年轻人在城里的教堂里跳来跳去，而他们购物的主要标准之一是 "敬拜"，他们更多时候是指 "音乐"。你有年轻的基督徒感到灰心，因为尽管他们在一个又一个星期天坐在忠实的讲道下，他们说他们已经很久没有 "感觉到与上帝的亲近 "了。也许那里发生了一些重要的事情。但是，我认为也有一个很好的机会，他们只是在上次参加会议之后，没有好好地享受过内啡肽的刺激。

I am really afraid that we’ve managed to create a generation of anemic Christians who are spiritually dependent on excellent music. Their sense of spiritual well-being is based on feeling“close to God,” their feeling close to God is based on their “ability to worship,” and being able to worship depends on big crowds singing great music.

我真的很担心，我们已经设法创造了一代贫血的基督徒，他们在精神上依赖优秀的音乐。他们的属灵幸福感是基于 "与神亲近 "的感觉，他们与神亲近的感觉是基于他们 "敬拜的能力"，而敬拜的能力取决于大群人唱出的好音乐。

Just as bad, think about how many church fights and divisions are rooted in disagreements about music. People leave churches because they don’t like the music. Christians who believe exactly the same things about Jesus worship in different buildings next door to each other because they can’t countenance one another’s musical style. Churches split because one faction wants “contemporary” music and another wants “traditional” music. It’s not the words that are at issue; it’s how the words are sung, and to what instrumentation. The thing even has its own name—the “Worship Wars,” which when translated with a little honesty is really “the Music Wars.”

同样糟糕的是，想想有多少教会的争吵和分裂是源于对音乐的分歧。人们离开教会是因为他们不喜欢音乐。对耶稣的信仰完全相同的基督徒在彼此隔壁的不同建筑中敬拜，因为他们不能容忍彼此的音乐风格。教会分裂是因为一个派别想要 "现代 "音乐，另一个派别想要 "传统 "音乐。问题不在于歌词，而在于歌词如何唱，用什么乐器唱。这件事甚至有自己的名字--"敬拜之战"，如果稍微诚实地翻译一下，其实就是 "音乐之战"。

The bottom line, I suppose, is that it would do every Christian well to do some honest heart-searching about what makes them feel “close to God.” Can you feel close to God just by reading or saying the words, “In Christ Jesus you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.”? Would you be able to function in a church that’s great in every way except the music? If not, you probably need to give some thought to whether your spiritual life is dependent on something it should not be dependent on.

我想，底线是，对每一个基督徒来说，对什么使他们感到 "与神亲近 "进行一些诚实的内心反省，会有好处。仅仅通过阅读或说 "在基督耶稣里，你们这些曾经远离的人，因着基督的宝血，已经亲近了 "这句话，你能感觉到与神的亲近吗？你能在一个除了音乐之外各方面都很好的教堂里发挥作用吗？如果不能，你可能需要考虑一下，你的精神生活是否依赖于一些不应该依赖的东西。

*I’m being facetious with the title of this article and the call for a moratorium on music, of course. The Bible tells us to sing. God gave us music precisely because it affects our hearts and emotion, and that is a good thing. But every good thing can be and will be misused by sinful humans. My sense is that “excellent music” has become something of an idol. No, we don’t worship it. But a lot of people need it to worship, and that may be just as bad. Music is a part of our lives as humans; in a certain way we’ll always depend on it. But as I see it, there’s ample anecdotal evidence out there to suggest that for many Christians, the dependence has become unhealthy.

*当然，我对这篇文章的标题和对暂停音乐的呼吁是开玩笑的。圣经》告诉我们要唱歌。上帝给了我们音乐，正是因为它能影响我们的心灵和情感，这是件好事。但是每件好事都可能而且会被有罪的人类误用。我的感觉是，"优秀的音乐 "已经成为某种偶像。不，我们不崇拜它。但是很多人需要它来崇拜，而这可能同样糟糕。音乐是我们人类生活的一部分；在某种程度上，我们将永远依赖它。但在我看来，有充分的传闻证据表明，对许多基督徒来说，这种依赖已经变得不健康了。


Greg Gilbert is the senior pastor of Third Avenue Baptist Church in Louisville, Kentucky. He is the author of What Is the Gospel? (Crossway, 2010), Assured: Discover Grace, Let Go of Guilt, and Rest in Your Salvation (Baker, 2019), and the commentary in the ESV Story of Redemption Bible (Crossway, 2018). He is the co-author of What Is the Mission of the Church?: Making Sense of Social Justice, Shalom, and the Great Commission (Crossway, 2011). You can follow him on Twitter.

格雷格-吉尔伯特是肯塔基州路易斯维尔第三大道浸信会的高级牧师。他是《什么是福音？(Crossway, 2010), Assured: Discover Grace, Let Go of Guilt, and Rest in Your Salvation (Baker, 2019), and the commentary in the ESV Story of Redemption Bible (Crossway, 2018)。他是《教会的使命是什么》的共同作者。的合著者，对社会正义、仁爱和大使命的理解（Crossway, 2011）。你可以在Twitter上关注他。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/against-music/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：Against Music

作者： GREG GILBERT

本文简介：时事

本文栏目：CHRISTIAN LIVING

本文标签：法律, 色情, 儿童



