---
title: 2022-01-06-保守派vs自由派
date: 2022-01-06 14:19
---

3 Surprises from New Research on ‘Progressive’ and ‘Conservative’ Christians
TREVIN WAX  |  NOVEMBER 9, 2021

关于 "自由派 "和 "保守派 "基督徒的三个令人惊奇的最新发现

Trevin Wax | 2021年11月9日

Are conservative Christians prone to politicizing their faith, conflating Republican Party politics with biblical fidelity?

保守派基督徒是否倾向于将信仰政治化，把共和党政治理念与对圣经的忠心混为一谈？

Some are, and we could point to plenty of examples. But the bigger, underreported story is that conservative Christians are not uniquely prone to such errors, and in fact, “progressive” Christians outpace their conservative counterparts in succumbing to politicization.

有些是，我们可以举出很多例子，但更广泛且未被充分报道的情况是，保守派基督徒并不是唯一容易犯这种错误的人，事实上，"自由派 "基督徒在屈从政治方面有过之而无不及。

One Faith No Longer
George Yancey and Ashlee Quosigk’s new book, One Faith No Longer: the Transformation of Christianity in Red and Blue America, published by NYU Press earlier this year, has a provocative thesis. Based on new research and extensive interviews, the authors claim current progressive-conservative divisions among Christians in the U.S. (descending from the modernist-fundamentalist battles a century ago) are manifestations of fundamentally different belief systems.

一信不再有

乔治·扬西（George Yancey）和阿什利·库西克（Ashlee Quosigk）的新书《一信不再有：美国红蓝两派的基督教转型》（One Faith No Longer: the Transformation of Christianity in Red and Blue America），今年早些时候由纽约大学出版社出版，其论点颇具争议性。基于新的研究和广泛的采访，作者声称目前美国基督徒中自由派和保守派之间的分歧（产生于一个世纪前的现代主义和基要主义之争），从根本上讲，属于不同的信仰体系的表现。

Yancey and Quosigk believe we are not dealing with minor alterations in doctrine and values, but belief systems that have grown so drastically different that each side’s “goals” become oppositional, thereby “interfering with one another’s ability to accomplish their desired purposes” (209).

扬西和库西克认为，我们面对的不是教义和价值观的细微改变，而是信仰体系的巨大分歧，以至于每一方的 "目标 "都是针尖对麦芒，从而 "干扰了彼此实现其预期目标的能力"（209）。

In defining conservative and progressive Christians, the authors use theological rather than political criteria. Individuals who believe the Bible is the inerrant Word of God and say Jesus is the only path to salvation are conservative Christians. Those who do not believe the Bible is the inerrant Word of God and do not see Jesus as the only path to salvation are progressive Christians.

在定义什么是保守派和自由派基督徒时，作者使用了神学而非政治标准。相信《圣经》是上帝无误的话语并说耶稣是唯一救主的人是保守派基督徒。那些不相信《圣经》是上帝无误的话语，不承认耶稣是唯一的救主的人是自由派基督徒。

The decision to define these groups by theological rather than political criteria is itself one of the areas where the differences between progressives and conservatives are most starkly represented. Everywhere we turn, we hear that conservative evangelicalism has become overly politicized and partisan, unable to speak to power prophetically. And we can certainly point to people and places where this has been the case. But we’re wrong to assume that the answer to this politicization will be found by turning to the Christian left. On the contrary, progressive Christians who fit this description are more, not less, politically minded than the conservative Christians.

用神学标准而不是政治标准来定义这些群体的决定，本身就是自由派和保守派之间差异最明显的领域之一。 无论我们走到哪里，我们都听到保守的福音派变得过于政治化和党派化，无法像先知一样对权力说话。我们当然可以指出哪些人和地方出现了这种情况。但如果认为转向基督教左派就能找到解决这种政治化的答案，那就错了。 相反，符合上述描述的自由派基督徒比保守派基督徒更多地用政治头脑来思考问题，而不是更少。

Here are three surprises from Yancey and Quosigk’s research.

1. Progressive Christians are more likely to establish their identity through politics, while conservative Christians find their identity in theology.
Put simply, progressive Christians see the world through a political lens; conservative Christians, through a religious lens (155). This doesn’t mean that progressives are atheological and conservatives apolitical, but only that the emphasis is wildly disparate between the groups.

以下是杨西和库西克的研究带来的三个令人惊奇的发现。

1、自由派基督徒更有可能通过政治建立他们的身份，而保守派基督徒则在神学中找到他们的身份。

简单地说，自由派基督徒通过政治视角看世界；保守派基督徒则通过宗教视角看世界（155）。这并不意味着自由派不讲神学、保守派不讲政治，而只是说这两个群体之间的侧重点大相径庭。

For example, progressive Christians emphasize political values relating to social justice issues as they determine who is part of their in-group; they tend to be less concerned about theological agreement. Conservative Christians, however, do not put strong emphasis on political agreement in order to determine if you are one of them—their major concern is whether you agree with them on core theological points . . . . (4)

例如，自由派基督徒强调与社会正义问题相关的政治价值观，因为这些决定谁是他们的团体的一部分； 他们往往不太关心神学上的一致性。 然而，保守派基督徒并不十分强调政治上的一致性，以确定你是不是他们中的一员--他们主要关心的是，你是否在核心神学观点上与他们一致…… (4) 

For this reason, progressive Christians

tend to be more accepting of groups that are traditionally politically progressive (such as Muslims and atheists) than they are of conservative Christians. . . . By contrast, conservative Christians tend to reject Muslims and atheists as part of an out-group, but they do not necessarily reject political liberals. . . . (14).

由于这个原因，自由派基督徒与保守派基督徒相比，更倾向于接受传统上的政治进步群体（例如穆斯林和无神论者）…… 相比之下，保守派基督徒倾向于拒绝把穆斯林和无神论者看成是外部盟友的一部分，但他们不一定拒绝政治自由主义者…… (14)。

The authors aren’t saying progressives are naturally more political in a general sense. Their point is that progressives’ commitment to humanistic values of social justice leads them to political action as the area of causing social change. And prioritizing political alignment over theological agreement leads to the next surprise.

作者并不是说自由派人士在一般意义上天然更具有政治性，而是认为，自由派们对社会正义的人文价值观的承诺，导致他们把政治行动看成引起社会变革的场域。 而将政治上的一致置于神学上的一致之上会导致下一个令人吃惊的发现。

2. Conservative Christians are more likely than progressive Christians to defy political orthodoxy.
Just look at the last five years to see this point proven. There was a virtual Civil War among conservative evangelicals when Republican Party orthodoxy became synonymous with Donald Trump and a host of positions on immigration, poverty, racial justice, and environmentalism.

2、保守派基督徒比自由派基督徒更有可能挑战政治正统。

只要看看过去五年就可以证明这一点。当共和党的正统观念与唐纳德·特朗普以及一系列关于移民、贫困、种族公正和环保的立场画上等号的时候，保守的福音派基督徒之间几乎爆发内战。

Many conservative evangelical leaders pushed back, hard, at great personal cost, against “conservative political ideology” when they saw it in conflict with biblical teaching and values. Even now, you will find theologically conservative evangelicals with major disagreements on political policy.

许多保守的福音派领袖在看到 "保守的政治意识形态 "与圣经的教导和价值观相冲突时，不惜付出巨大的个人代价进行反击。 即使是现在，你也会发现神学上保守的福音派人士在政治政策上存在重大分歧。

Such is not the case for progressive Christian leaders. “The only political issue where multiple bloggers differed from the general political progressive orthodoxy was abortion,” the authors found, and even then, the pushback was light, as if designed to highlight the harmlessness of their dissent. Their conclusion:

自由派的基督教领袖却不是这样。作者发现“一般的政治自由派的正统观念与网红博主们在政治观点上唯一的争议是堕胎。”即使如此，自由派反堕胎的声音也很轻，似乎是为了强调他们的异议是无害的。作者的结论是：

There are more paths by which conservative Christians defy conservative political ideology than paths by which progressive Christians defy progressive political ideology (74).

保守派基督徒反对保守派政治意识形态的途径，多于自由派基督徒反对自由派政治意识形态的途径（74）。

Progressive Christians are often more partisan than conservative Christians even as they chastise conservatives for being chained to a particular political ideology. Why is this the case? A third surprise.

自由派基督徒通常比保守派基督徒更具党派性，即使他们责备保守派被束缚在特定的政治意识形态中。 为什么会这样？ 第三个惊奇：

3. Progressive Christians are more likely to seek converts among conservative Christians than among non-Christians.
The common perception is that theologically conservative Christians remain in a bubble of like-mindedness, but Yancey and Quosigk’s research showed the opposite. It’s theologically progressive Christians who surround themselves with homogeneously thinking peers, and part of that homogeneity is an “overwhelmingly negative” view of conservative Christians (94).

3、自由派基督徒更喜欢去劝化保守派基督徒，而不是劝化那些非基督徒们。

通常的看法是，神学上保守的基督徒喜欢抱团取暖，但扬西和库西克的研究表明情况正好相反，是神学上自由的基督徒喜欢与自己思想同质的同温层，而这种同质性的一部分是对保守派基督徒的“压倒性的负面”看法（94）。

A substantial part of how progressive Christians identify themselves is by exposing clearly what they are not—namely, conservative Christians. (17)

自由派基督徒自我身份认同的一个重要组成部分是清楚地表明他们不是保守派基督徒。(17)

In fact, the progressive view of the conservative is so bleak that progressives see themselves as more closely aligned with Muslims than with conservative Christians. How can this be true? It goes back to a commitment among progressive Christians to treat non-Christian beliefs with equality (142). For progressive Christians, Jesus gets recast as the way to true peace in this life and an exemplary model of humanity (instead of the traditional understanding of his role as Savior and Son of God; 148), and this pushes aside the need for evangelism of unbelievers.

事实上，自由派对保守派的看法是如此之暗淡，以至于自由派认为自己与穆斯林的关系比与保守派基督徒的关系更密切。何以至此？这要追溯到自由派基督徒承诺平等地对待非基督教信仰（142）。 对于自由派基督徒来说，耶稣被重新塑造为今生真正的和平缔造者和人类的道德典范（而不是传统上理解的救主和神的儿子；148）这就把向非基督徒传福音的必要性抛到了九霄云外。

Most progressive Christians do not base their religion on strict obedience to the Bible, nor do they feel a strong need to encourage others to accept their interpretation of the Bible or even to accept a Christian faith. The core of their religion is built upon a value set of inclusiveness, tolerance, and social justice. Christianity is just one of many paths to achieving a society of inclusion and justice for the marginalized. It is not necessarily a superior path. . . . (191)

大多数自由派基督徒并不把信仰的根基建立在严格遵守圣经的教训上，他们也不觉得有强烈的需要去鼓励别人接受他们对圣经的解读，或者去接受基督教信仰。 他们宗教的核心建立在包容、宽容和社会正义的价值观之上。 基督教只是帮助被边缘化的人群实现社会包容和正义的众多途径之一。 它不一定是一条最优的道路…… (191)


The people most needing “conversion,” then, are not unbelievers but conservative Christians, which may explain why so many progressive Christians try to persuade their conservative counterparts to adopt their political ideology. Conservatives, not unbelievers, are their potential converts.

那么，最需要“皈依 ”的人不是不信的人，而是保守的基督徒，这也许可以解释为什么那么多自由派基督徒试图说服保守派信徒接受他们的政治意识形态。他们潜在的劝化对象是保守派，而不是不信的人，

One Faith No Longer upends the conventional wisdom that conservative Christians are uniquely prone to falling captive to unbiblical political ideologies, or that conservative Christians are filled with rage toward their theological opponents. Through research and interviews, Yancey and Quosigk demonstrate the opposite: it’s progressives who rarely defy political orthodoxy and who harbor disdain for conservatives. And the hardening lines between these two groups add weight to the thesis of J. Gresham Machen a century ago: when it comes to Christianity and theological liberalism, we really are talking about two different religions.

《一信不再有》颠覆了传统认知，即保守派基督徒特别容易被不符合圣经的政治意识形态所俘获，或者保守派基督徒对他们神学上的对手充满怒气。通过研究和采访，扬西和库西克证明了相反的情况：即自由派人士很少挑战政治正统，反而对保守派抱着不屑一顾的态度。而这两个群体之间的墙越来越高，这也证明了一个世纪前格雷沙姆-麦肯（J. Gresham Machen）的论点：当我们谈论基督教和神学自由派的时候，我们真的在谈论两个不同的宗教。

Trevin Wax
Trevin Wax is vice president of research and resource development at the North American Mission Board and a visiting professor at Wheaton College. A former missionary to Romania, Trevin is a regular columnist at The Gospel Coalition and has contributed to The Washington Post, Religion News Service, World, and Christianity Today, which named him one of 33 millennials shaping the next generation of evangelicals. He has served as general editor of The Gospel Project. He is the author of multiple books, including The Multi-Directional Leader, Rethink Your Self, This Is Our Time, Eschatological Discipleship, and Gospel Centered Teaching. He and his wife Corina have three children. You can follow him on Twitter, Facebook, or receive his columns via email.

作者简介：特雷文-瓦克斯

特雷文-瓦克斯是北美宣教会研究和资源开发部的副总裁，也是惠顿学院的访问教授。特雷文曾是罗马尼亚的传教士，是福音联盟的定期专栏作家，并为《华盛顿邮报》、宗教新闻社、《世界》和《今日基督教》撰稿，后者将他列为塑造下一代福音派的33名千禧一代中的一员。他曾担任过《福音计划》的总编辑。他是多本书籍的作者，包括《多方向的领导者》、《重新思考你自己》、《这是我们的时代》、《末世论的门徒》和《以福音为中心的教学》。他和妻子科琳娜有三个孩子。你可以在Twitter、Facebook上关注他，或通过电子邮件接收他的专栏。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/blogs/trevin-wax/research-progressive-conservative-christians/

译：Deepl+PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：3 Surprises from New Research on ‘Progressive’ and ‘Conservative’ Christians

作者：Trevin Wax

本文简介：最新关于保守派和自由派基督徒的研究颠覆了传统认知，有三个令人称奇的发现。

本文栏目：博客

本文标签：书籍