V 49, p 305  210

To Elector John [Coburg,] May 20, 1530

This is a letter of pastoral counsel1 for Elector John, who was at that time attending the Diet of Augsburg. In the introduction and in a postscript Luther takes care of some correspondence matters. The body of the letter is dedicated to strengthening in the Elector a feeling of joy and gratitude to God for the many blessings which God has bestowed upon him. Luther points out that whatever the Elector has to endure at the moment he endures exclusively for the sake of the Word of God, and as a result of the Elector’s open affirmation of this Word. Luther then focuses on three points in which he sees signs of God’s particular blessings on the Elector, and which, in turn, should be reasons for the Elector’s comfort, strength, joy, and gratitude. In the

19	I.e., the Coburg; see p. 287, n. 1.

1	From Coburg Luther wrote many letters of pastoral counsel to his friends in Augsburg; only a few examples have been included in the present volume. For others, see LCC 18, passim.

first place, the Elector’s territory is a place where the gospel is freely at work. This can be seen especially in the preaching and in the religious training of the young people. Consequently Elec- toral Saxony is a paradise of God, and the Elector is the caretaker of this paradise. This means, secondly, that the Elector, his property and his talents, are engaged in a continuous service to God. And finally, in this service the Elector has the support of the prayers of many people, not only of his own subjects, but even of those people who have to live outside of the paradise, (that is, outside of Electoral Saxony,) but who long to live in it. In contrast to these blessings the trou- bles created for the Elector by Satan are of no importance.

On Elector John, see LW 48, 269, n. 8.

Text in German: WA, Br 5, 325–327. The following translation, with minor changes, is by Theodore G. Tappert and is used by permission from LCC 18, 140–144.

To the most Serene, Noble Sovereign and Lord, Sir John, duke in Saxony, elector of the Holy Roman Empire, etc., landgrave in Thuringia, and margrave of Meissen, my Most Gracious Lord

V 49, p 306 Grace and peace in Christ, our Lord and Saviour. Amen. Most Serene, Noble Sovereign, Most Gracious Lord: I have for some time delayed answering Your Electoral Grace’s  first  letter  from  Augsburg,2  which  was  so  graciously  addressed  to  me,  and which contained news and the admonition that I should not let time hang heavily on my hands [here] in this place, etc.3 Indeed it was not necessary for Your Electoral Grace to be anxious and to think about me so graciously, but it is our duty to remember, be concerned about, and pray for Your Electoral Grace, and this we certainly do, and do faithfully. No, I do not find the days to be long. We live like lords, and these [last] weeks passed so quickly that they seem like no more than three days.4

On the other hand, Your Electoral Grace is now, and has to be, in a tiresome situa-

2	This is a reference to Elector John’s May 11 letter to Luther (see p. 296), in which the Elector informed Luther about the preaching matter (see p. 296, n. 7), and also expressed his hope that Luther would not be bored at the Coburg. Luther apparently did not consider his short May 15 letter, No. 208, a sufficient answer.

3	Literally: “… writing from Augsburg, graciously [addressed] to me, [containing] information

of news and the admonition that I, in this place, should not let time get long for me, etc.”

4	Luther had moved into the Coburg on April 24 (see p. 291, n. 38); therefore about three weeks had gone by when he wrote the present letter.

tion. May our dear Father in heaven help Your Electoral Grace to remain steadfast and patient [in God’s] grace, which he gives us so abundantly. For to begin with, it is certain that Your Electoral Grace must endure all this trouble, expense, danger, and tedium solely for God’s sake, inasmuch as none of the raging sovereigns and enemies can find any fault with Your Electoral Grace  except on account of  the pure, tender, living  Word  of God; for they know Your Electoral Grace to be a blameless, peaceful, devout, and faithful  sovereign. Since this is certain, [the hostility of  Your Grace’s opponents] may be taken as an important sign of God’s love for Your Electoral Grace, [since we see] that he so abundantly grants his holy Word [to Your  Grace], and makes [Your Grace] worthy  of suffering so much shame and enmity on its account. [All of this] should be a source of  comfort. For God’s friendship is a bigger comfort than that of  the whole world. On the other hand, we see that God does not consider the angry and wrathful sovereigns worthy of knowing and possessing his V 49, p 307 Word. Indeed, they are obliged in their blindness and callousness to revile and persecute it; this senseless raging of theirs is a terrible sign of  God’s disfavor and wrath toward them. This certainly ought to terrify them in their consciences and cause them to despair; ultimately it will be so.

In addition to this, the merciful God shows himself to be even more gracious by

making his Word so powerful and fruitful in Your Electoral Grace’s territory. For surely Your  Electoral  Grace’s  territory  has more  excellent  pastors and  preachers  than  any other territory in the whole world, and their faithful, pure teaching helps to preserve peace. As a consequence, the young people, both boys and girls, grow up so well instructed in the Catechism and the Scriptures that I am deeply moved when I see that young boys and girls can pray, believe, and speak more of God and Christ than they ever could in the monasteries, foundations, and schools of bygone days, or even of our day.5

Truly, Your Electoral Grace’s territory is a beautiful paradise for such young people; there is no other place like it in all the world. God has erected this paradise in Your Elec- toral Grace’s [land]6 as a token of his grace and favor for Your Electoral Grace. It is as if he should say: “To you, dear Duke John, I entrust my most precious treasure, my pleas- ant paradise, and ask you to preside over it as father. I place it under your protection

5	In his Sermon on Keeping Children in School, published in 1530, Luther made similar statements. See WA 30II, 546 f.; LW 46, 231 f.

6	Literally: “bosom.” Perhaps this is an allusion to Luke 16:22.

and government, and I give you the honor of being my gardener and caretaker.” This is most certainly true, for the Lord God, who has set Your Electoral Grace over this terri- tory  to be its father and helper, feeds all [the people]  through Your Electoral Grace’s office and service, and they all must eat of Your Electoral Grace’s bread. This is as if God himself  were Your Electoral Grace’s daily guest and ward,  since his Word,  and those children of his who have his Word, are Your Electoral Grace’s daily guests and wards.

In contrast to this, one should consider how the fury of other sovereigns harms the valuable  youth. They7 turn God’s paradise into sinful, foul-smelling, and ruinous mud- holes of8  the devil; they   V 49, p 308 spoil everything, and they have none but devils as their  daily guests at table. For in God’s sight  they do not deserve the honor of  giving even a cup of cold water9  to [God’s] Word out of their great wealth.10  On the contrary; they have nothing better to give to the thirsty Christ on the cross than vinegar, myrrh, and  gall.11  Nevertheless,  many devout  people, who yearn12  for  Your  Electoral Grace’s paradise and blessed land,13 live [in their lands] secretly, and help to pray earnestly for it.

God14  dwells so richly in Your Electoral Grace’s territory as graciously to allow his Word to have free course there; as a result of  this Your Electoral Grace’s office, prop- erty, goods, and all are used in a blessed service and way; actually all this is nothing less than daily alms and offerings presented unceasingly to the honor of  God’s holy Word.

7	I.e., “other sovereigns.”  8 Literally: “for the devil.” 9 See Matt. 10:42.

10 I.e., the “other sovereigns” do not deserve the honor of promoting God’s Word in their territo- ries, not even in the smallest possible way; on the contrary, they harm the Word of  God, just as Christ was harmed on the cross.

11 Matt. 27:34.

12	Literally: “longingly yearn.”

13	See also Luther’s letter to the Evangelicals in Leipzig, dated October 4, 1532; WA, Br 6, No. 1964;

LCC 18, 218 f.

14	The material in the text which precedes the sentence beginning “For it is indeed …” is one long sentence which reads, literally translated: “For since God dwells … as graciously to … there, so that … of God’s holy Word, and in addition [repeat: since God] endows Your Electoral Grace … are and must be, therefore indeed Your Electoral Grace certainly has ample cause … of his grace.”

Further, Your Electoral Grace is  endowed with a peaceful heart,15  which is not blood- thirsty  and cruel, as  the hearts of  [Your Grace’s] opponents are  and must be. Conse- quently  Your Electoral Grace certainly has ample cause to rejoice in God, and to find comfort in these notable marks of his grace. For it is indeed a great and glorious honor that God has chosen, consecrated, and made Your Electoral Grace worthy of  using life and  possessions, territory and people, and all that Your Electoral Grace owns in this beautiful  service of  God, so that His divine Word is not only not persecuted, but also cultivated16  and preserved. It matters not that some among us are lazy,17 for in spite of this Your Electoral   V 49, p 309 Grace’s service and protection are effective in preserving the Word.

And finally, Your Electoral Grace is now also supported by the earnest and faithful prayers of all Christians, especially [those living] in Your Electoral Grace’s territory. We know that our prayers are legitimate,18 and our cause is just; therefore we are also cer- tain  that [our prayers] please [God] and are heard. Indeed, the young people, who lift up  their innocent young voices and call from the  bottom of  their hearts to heaven,19

15	Or: disposition.

16	Or: nourished.

17	For the translation, see Trübner 8, 228; WA, Br 13, 134, to WA, Br 5, 329, n. 9.

18	Luther wrote: dass unser Gebet recht ist, i.e., that our prayer is right (or: correct, or: just). Tap-

pert’s translation, “effectual,” does not seem to do justice to the text. This is the case especially if one considers either the context or the parallelism which exists between the sentence beginning “we  know,”  and  the  sentence  beginning  “On  the  other  hand.”  Luther  means  to  say:  (a)  Our

prayers are heard because our cause is just; (b) our prayers are right—i.e., we pray in the  right

way for something which is just—and consequently our prayers are legitimate prayers. Were “effectual” the appropriate translation, then Luther would say: Our prayers are heard, because our cause is just, and our prayers are effectual, i.e., are heard. This seems to make little sense, especially if one considers the statement concerning the opponents. Luther says that the oppo- nents cannot pray. Obviously this statement does not mean that the opponents are unable to pray. It can only mean that they cannot pray with a good conscience, or legitimately. The reason for this is the evil cause for which the opponents stand; the consequence of this is the knowledge that the opponents’ prayers are not heard, and that the opponents have to employ other means to accomplish their goals.

19	Literally: “… [they who] from the bottom of their hearts call and shout to heaven with their

faithfully  commending Your Electoral Grace as their dear father to the merciful God, will accomplish it.20  On  the other hand, we [also]  know that  our opponents have an unjust cause, that they are unable to pray, that they employ clever devices [to gain their ends], and that they rely on their own wit and power, as is evident. In short, [they are building] on sand.21

May Your Electoral Grace graciously receive this letter from me; God knows that I speak the truth and do not dissemble. I am sorry that Satan is trying to disturb and trouble Your Electoral Grace’s heart. I know him very well, and I know how he is used to tossing me around. He is a doleful, sour spirit who cannot bear to see anyone happy or at peace, especially with God. How much less will he be able to endure it that Your Electoral Grace is of good V 49, p 310 courage, since he knows very well how much we depend on22 Your Electoral Grace.23 And not we alone, but almost the whole world—and, I almost wanted to say, heaven itself, because, in fact, a large part of the Kingdom  of  Christ  is  constantly  being  built  up  in  Your  Electoral  Grace’s  territory through [the preaching of] the saving Word. The devil knows this and is angry over it. We are therefore obligated faithfully to support Your Electoral Grace with our prayers, words of comfort, love, and every other possible means at our disposal. For when Your Electoral Grace is happy, we live, but when Your Electoral Grace is sorrowful, we are ill.

Our dear Lord and faithful Saviour, Jesus Christ, whom the Father of all mercies24

has so abundantly revealed and given to us, grant unto Your Electoral Grace, beyond all my asking, his Holy Spirit, the true and eternal Comforter; may [the Comforter] ever preserve, strengthen, and keep Your Electoral Grace against all the cunning, poisonous, and flaming darts25 of the sour, grievous, and wicked spirit. Amen, dear God, Amen.

innocent little tongues, faithfully commending …”

20	“It” refers either to the fact that “our” prayers are pleasing to God, or it refers generally to the support given to the Elector through the prayers.

21	See Matt. 7:26.

22	Luther wrote: wie viel an [Your Electoral Grace’s heart] uns allen gelegen. On the basis of Trüb- ner 4, 471, another translation would be: “how much we are concerned for Your Electoral Grace’s

heart. And not we alone [are concerned], but almost …”

23	Literally: “Your Sovereign Grace’s heart.”

24 2 Cor. 1:3.

25 Eph. 6:16.

Written on May 20, 1530

Your Sovereign Grace’s humbly dedicated MARTIN LUTHER

Most Gracious Lord: Dr. Apel26 has requested me to ask Your Electoral Grace, in his behalf, to pardon and to excuse him for V 49, p 311 taking leave at this time and going to Prussia. He had desired to mention this long ago, but because Your Electoral Grace was always so burdened [with other duties, and since] he himself is a very shy and well- mannered person, he never wanted to impose on Your Electoral Grace. I assume that he himself will write to Your Electoral Grace at greater length. Your Electoral Grace will certainly know how to deal graciously with this matter. Herewith I commend [Your Grace] to God’s keeping.

26  On November 5, 1529, Luther recommended Dr. John Apel to Duke Albrecht of  Prussia for the position  of  chancellor;  see  WA, Br  5,  No.  1490.  On  Apel,  see p.  115,  n.  2;  WA, Br  3,  292,  n.  9; Friedensburg, GUW, p. 165 f.; NDB 1, 322. When this position was offered to him, Apel accepted it, and  left Wittenberg to go to Königsberg. He apparently had a bad conscience (according to Cle- men, WA, Br 5, 328, n. 17), since he left the Elector’s service rather quickly, and did so only several months  after the Elector had appointed him as a member  of  the  Electoral court.  Apel sent his resignation  to  Luther via a  messenger, and  apparently asked  for Luther’s help  in avoiding  the Elector’s  disfavor.  Luther  fulfills  this  request  in  this  postscript.  The  messenger  continued  to Augsburg,  where he arrived on May 22, obviously bringing this letter for the Elector, a letter of comfort   (dated   May  19)  for   Jonas,   whose  little  son   had  recently   died,   and  a   letter   for Melanchthon, also dated May 19. See WA, Br 5, 335, and ibid., Nos. 1570 and 1571; see also WA, Br 12,

112.  (Clemen, WA, Br 5, 337, nn. 3, 4 has to be corrected accordingly.) Apel’s messenger perhaps also carried letter No. 209. According to Melanchthon’s May 22 letter to Luther, this messenger of Dr.  Apel was  to return  to Luther  with letters; WA, Br 5, 336. The messenger  did stop by at  the Coburg, but brought  no mail, as Luther  complained to Melanchthon on June 2 and 5; WA, Br 5, 345, 350; see also in this vol., p. 317. The  messenger continued his journey, apparently carrying with him a letter to Apel; see WA, Br 5, 328, n. 16; if he went to Wittenberg (and this is most prob- able), then he took along letter No. 211, Luther’s June 5 letter to his wife.

212

To Philip Melanchthon1 [Coburg,] June 5, 1530

In the first portion of this letter Luther complains about the lack of letters from his friends in Augsburg, and he communicates several bits of news, or rumors, which he had recently heard: The Emperor has ordered the Augsburg city council to dismiss all specially hired security forces; the Duke of Bavaria is planning an impressive reception for the Emperor; the Emperor is not coming to Augsburg; and the diet is to be canceled. Luther then briefly mentions the possible public reaction to his recently published Exhortation. Finally, in the second part of the letter, Luther mentions his father’s death, of which he had just been informed. This is occasion for Luther to reflect on the role his father played in his life. He ponders his father’s death, and muses over his own position as one of the oldest living male Luthers. He praises God that his

16	I.e., John Bugenhagen; see LW 48, 303, n. 44.

17	For the translation, see WA, Br 13, 137, to WA, Br 5, 348, line 24. Luther’s reference is to Link’s no- longer extant letter mentioned in note 20. Luther assumed that Bugenhagen would be especially interested in the news concerning the diet.

18	Literally: “and be kind to.” This could mean either that on behalf of Luther, Catherine ought to be kind to all, or that Luther is “sending kindness” to all.

1	The letter is extant in one manuscript copy, and in the common editions of Luther’s works.

While the address is missing in the manuscript copy, it is clear to whom Luther was writing since the addressee is mentioned in the first sentence.

father could have lived to the present, and thus have been enabled to see the light of truth.

On Philip Melanchthon, see LW 48, 77, n. 3.

Text in Latin: WA, Br 5, 350–351.

Grace and peace in Christ

In my last letter, my Philip, I wrote2 that we were annoyed because  you people  had let the messenger3 return to us empty-handed,  V 49, p 317  although  there  are  so  many of you, and all are usually eager to write. And now you have also let  the  second  messenger4 return empty-handed—first the  messenger  of  Apel,5 and now  the  carrier of the venison from Coburg.6 I cannot think enough  [about  this,  asking  myself] whether you people are so negligent or [are in some  way]  indignant;  for  you  must know that we here in the wilderness, as in a dry land, are longing for letters from you

2	See Luther to Melanchthon: June 2, 1530; WA, Br 5, 345.

3	This was Dr. Apel’s messenger, who had delivered to Augsburg letter No. 210 and the letters mentioned on p. 310, n. 26. He had returned to the Coburg empty-handed; see pp. 334 f. He had arrived at the Coburg prior to June 2, for on that day Luther complained to Melanchthon that Apel’s  messenger did not bring any letters, and that consequently the friends in Augsburg had

broken their promise to send letters with this messenger; WA, Br 5, 345. Since Melanchthon made

this  promise in his May 22 letter (see WA, Br 5, 336), it is clear that by June 2 Luther had had this

May 22 letter at least for several days. See also p. 334, n. 5.

4	See note 6.

5	See note 3.

6	In view of the high prices at Augsburg (see p. 295, n. 21), the Elector brought some of his sup- plies from Coburg or from other towns in Electoral Saxony. The carrier of these supplies, too, had returned empty-handed from Augsburg. This is the way Rückert, LB, p. 280, n. 18, explains the circumstances. He further suggests that another shipment of  venison was  at  once  dispatched from Coburg, and that Luther sent along (among other letters) this June 5 letter to Melanchthon. Rückert’s interpretation (which is affirmed in WA, Br 13, 137, to WA, Br 5, 351, nn. 3, 4) is a correc- tion of Clemen’s view of the situation. Clemen had identified (WA, Br 5, 351, n. 2) the “second messenger” with the “mounted messenger” of Elector John who brought a letter of the Elector to Luther; see p. 335. One would have to ask whether Luther’s statement to the effect that “you have permitted this messenger to return” fits this mounted messenger.  Rückert’s  interpretation, however, does not answer all possible questions either; see p. 336, nn. 14, 20.

people from which we may learn of all your affairs.

Well,  we have heard that the Emperor7  has ordered the Augsburg [city council] to dismiss  the hired soldiers, and to remove the chains from the streets.8  The day before yesterday9  Argula von   V 49, p 318  Stauffen10  was here;  she told us about the  extraordi- nary  pomp, the  theatrical productions, and  other new-fashioned honors  with  which the Duke of Bavaria will receive the Emperor at Munich.11 And finally, from Nürnberg12 they begin to convince us that the Emperor will not come to the diet, and further, that the  diet will be nullified through the efforts and the conniving of  the papists. Should

7	Emperor Charles; see LW 48, 175 f.

8	The Augsburg city council had hired  two  thousand  mercenaries  (according  to  some  sources only four hundred), and  had  made  preparations for  closing  off  the  streets  with  chains,  obviously to take all necessary precautions for the dignitaries present within the walls. The Emperor, misunderstanding this action, interpreted it as  an affront  to his  rights as  lord of  the  city,  and on  May 24 complained to the city council  through members  of  the  Council of  Regency  (see LW  48, 70, n. 1). The city council explained its motivations, and the Emperor’s  representatives were  sat- isfied. Whether or not further pressure was used by the Council of Regency is not known. Shortly before May 28, however, the city council dismissed seven hundred and ninety-five of the hired mercenaries. See BA p. 52; NB I.Abt.,E.1, p. 31, n. 21A. On June 9 the Frankfurt delegation reported from Augsburg to  the  city council  that  the  Emperor  had  hired one  thousand mercenaries  “whom he wanted here at Augsburg.” See BA p. 394. It is not clear whether these were new soldiers, or whether the Emperor simply took over those who were  hired  by  the  Augsburg  city  council. One may assume that Luther also heard of this development from Nürnberg through  Link’s  no-longer extant letter; see p. 315, n. 20. On  May 26  and 28  the  Nürnberg  delegation in Augsburg  reported this development to the city council. See C. R. 2, 66 f., 89 f.; see also Roth, Augsburgs Reformationsgeschichte (see p. 146, n. 24), 1, 329 f.

9	I.e., June 3.

10 See p. 313, n. 11.

11  Great preparations were made in Munich, where Emperor Charles V was expected on May 22. He did not reach Munich until June 10. The Nürnberg  ambassador at the Imperial court gave a detailed report on the festivities in connection with the Emperor’s entry into Munich; C. R. 2, 91,

n. 3. This report was slightly reworked and published as a one page flier; see URA 1, No. 87; WA, Br 5, 442 f.

12 See p. 315, n. 20.

this happen, then it would be a sign of  God’s implacable wrath against the papists, for [then it is clear] that God does not wish to listen to the prayers which even we have offered in their behalf.

If the opinions on my little book vary,13 don’t be disturbed. My God is a God of fools, and is used to ridiculing the wise;14 therefore I don’t care for them either.

Today   Hans  Reinecke15   wrote  me16   that  my  very  dear  father,    V 49, p 319 Hans Luther17  the  Elder,18  departed  from  this  life  on  Exaudi Sunday19  at one  o’clock.  This death has certainly thrown me into sadness, thinking not only [of the bonds] of nature, but also of the very kind love [my father had for me]; for through him my Creator has given me all that I am and have. Even though it does comfort me that [Reinecke] writes that [my father], strong in faith in Christ, had gently fallen asleep, yet the pity of heart and the memory of  the most loving dealing[s] with him have shaken me in the inner-

13	This is a reference to Luther’s Vermahnung an die Geistlichen, versammelt auf dem Reichstag zu Augsburg (Exhortation to the Clergy Assembled at the Diet of Augsburg) (Wittenberg: Hans Lufft, May, 1530), WA 30II, 268 ff.; LW 34, 9 ff. This was the first book Luther wrote at the Coburg. On  April 29 he reported to Melanchthon that the work on this Exhortation was progressing; WA, Br 5, 298. On  May 12 he wrote to Melanchthon that the manuscript  had been  finished  and  shipped  to  Witten- berg; WA, Br 5, 316. Luther received copies of this book on June 2 from a bookdealer who was traveling in a great hurry from Wittenberg to Augsburg to capture the market  there  before  a competitor could do so; WA, Br 5, 345. On June 5 Luther presupposed that the books were in the process of being sold in Augsburg. Luther’s above remark certainly was not based on any infor- mation available to him; Luther wrote in anticipation only. On June 12 and 13  Jonas  reported  to Luther that five hundred copies of the book had been sold, and that many discerning readers had applauded the book; WA, Br 5, 358, 361; see also WA 30II, 237 f.

14	See 1 Cor. 1:18 ff.

15 See p. 314, n. 12.

16	This letter is not extant. Clemen suggests (WA, Br 5, 352, n. 10) that Reinecke, while returning from Coburg to Mansfeld, met the messenger  from Mansfeld who was to  bring Luther  the news of his father’s death, and that Reinecke took it upon himself to inform Luther of this event.

17	On Hans Luther, see LW 48, 329 ff.

18	I.e., in contrast to Luther’s uncle, Klein Hans, or Hans Luther the Younger; see also WA, Br 5, 350, n. 10.

19 I.e., May 29, 1530.

most  parts of  my being, so that seldom if  ever have I despised death as much as I do now. Yet “the righteous man is taken away from calamity, and he enters into peace;”20 that is, we die many times before we die once for all. I succeed now in the legacy of the name, and I am almost the oldest Luther in my family. Now it is up to me, not only by chance, but also by law, to follow [my father] through death into the kingdom of Christ; may He graciously bestow this on us, for it is for His sake that we are the most miser- able among men, and a disgrace for the whole world. Since I am now too sad, I am writ- ing  no more; for it is right and Godpleasing for me, as a son, to mourn such a father, from  whom the  Father of  [all] mercies21  has brought  me  forth, and  through  whose sweat [the Creator] has fed and raised me to whatever I am [now]. Indeed I rejoice that he has lived till now so that he could see the light of truth. Praise be to God in all his deeds and councils for ever and ever. Amen.22

More at another time. Greet all our friends.

June 5, 1530	MARTIN LUTHER, D.

V 49, p 320 213

To Philip Melanchthon1

20 Isa. 57:1 f.

21 2 Cor. 1:3.

22  On June 19 Veit Dietrich wrote to Mrs. Martin Luther: “Within two days [Luther] has gotten over [the death of] his father, although it was very hard for him. Looking at Hans Reinecke’s let- ter, [Luther] says to me: ‘So my father is also dead!’ Then he hurriedly took his Psalter, went into his  room,  and  wept  so  greatly  that  the  next  day  his  head  [hurt].  Since  that  time he  has  not betrayed any further emotion.” WA, Br 5, 379.