First principles thinking is a powerful framework for deconstructing complex problems and driving non-linear outcomes.

Here's a breakdown of what it is and how it works: 
Aristotle defined a first principle as "the first basis from which a thing is known."

A first principle is a basic, foundational assumption—one that cannot be deduced or broken down any further.

First principles are foundational truths.
Image
"First principles thinking”—or "reasoning from first principles”—is a problem-solving and innovation framework that requires you to break down a complex problem into its most foundational elements.

The aim: to ground yourself in the foundational truths and build up from there. 
When we encounter challenging problems, our tendency is to rely on base level assumptions we have been told are true—or we believe to be true.

It's quick and easy to do.

But it also leads to unimaginative, linear solutions that closely resemble what has been done before. 
This is called "reasoning by analogy”—it leads to solutions that are much like something else.

To be sure, it can be very useful when speed is the priority.

But it falls short when dealing with complex problems requiring creative, imaginative solutions. 
Imagine the solution to a problem as a house.

The foundation is the assumptions upon which the solution rests.

If it's shoddy, it'll collapse. If it's sturdy, it'll thrive.

First principles form a sturdy foundation for the house—and allow you to build more creatively on top!
Image
To bring this to life, let's look at a classic example of first principles thinking in action:

@elonmusk & @SpaceX

The problem? Sending a rocket to Mars to begin the process of making humans an interplanetary species.

Love him or hate him, that does sound pretty complex...
Image
Musk quickly discovered the cost of buying a rocket was astronomical (pun intended)—$65 million or so.

It was not only financially untenable, it was also grounded in assumptions of how rockets have always been built and what they should cost.

So he turned to first principles. 
He asked a few foundational questions:

What's a rocket made of?

Aerospace-grade aluminum alloys, titanium, copper, and carbon fiber.

What's the value of those materials on the open market?

Just ~2% of the typical rocket price!

So he decided SpaceX would build its own rocket. 
Rather than accepting the established "truths" about the cost of a rocket, Musk grounded his problem solving in first principles.

Today, @SpaceX rockets are doing extraordinary things at a fraction of the historical cost—the dreams of a Mars voyage appear alive and well.
Image
How can you leverage first principles thinking to create better outcomes?

First, determine if it's necessary for your given problem, or if reasoning by analogy is a better fit.

As a rule of thumb:
• For speed/efficiency—analogy
• For creativity/innovation—first principles 
Assuming first principles thinking is the appropriate path, start by asking questions to drill down into the core of the problem.

@ShaneAParrish calls this "Socratic Questioning”—think of it as resurfacing the insatiably curious child in you.

Here are a few to get you started:
Image
What is the problem I am trying to solve?

We often waste time and energy trying to solve the "wrong" problem. Identify the "right" problem.

What do I know to be true about this problem?

Write down everything you know about the problem (and its previously attempted solutions). 
Why do I believe these "truths" to be true? How do I know they are true?

Identify the source of your beliefs. Be ruthless in evaluating their integrity.

How can I support these beliefs? Is there real evidence to support them?

Seek out hard evidence that proves their truth. 
Are my emotions clouding my judgment?

When emotions drive our thoughts and decisions, we rarely see good outcomes.

What alternative beliefs might exist?

Understanding alternative viewpoints is a superpower.

What are the consequences of being wrong?

Always know the stakes! 
First principles thinking starts with questioning your beliefs.

Asking these questions will help you drill down to the foundational truths of a problem and ultimately build up to a more imaginative solution. 
The world is filled with unimaginative, copycat solutions.

These predictably lead to linear outcomes.

Leveraging first principles thinking is intense and time consuming—but it is also a pathway to devising creative solutions that drive non-linear, asymmetric outcomes. 
That was a breakdown on first principles thinking. I hope you found it useful.

Follow me @SahilBloom for more threads on business, finance, growth, and decision-making.

I’ll be doing a deep-dive in my newsletter. Join 62,000+ others and subscribe!

第一原则思维是解构复杂问题和推动非线性结果的一个强大框架。

下面是关于它是什么以及它如何工作的详细介绍。
亚里士多德将第一原则定义为 "认识一个事物的第一个基础"。

第一原则是一个基本的、奠基性的假设--不能再推导或分解了。

第一原则是基础性的真理。
图片
"第一原理思维"--或 "从第一原理推理"--是一个解决问题和创新的框架，要求你将一个复杂的问题分解成最基本的要素。

其目的是：以基本的真理为基础，并从那里建立起来。
当我们遇到具有挑战性的问题时，我们的倾向是依靠我们已经被告知是真实的或我们认为是真实的基础假设。

这样做既快又简单。

但这也导致了没有想象力的、线性的解决方案，与以前的做法非常相似。
这被称为 "类比推理"--它导致的解决方案与其他东西非常相似。

可以肯定的是，当速度是优先考虑的时候，它可能非常有用。

但是，在处理需要创造性的、有想象力的解决方案的复杂问题时，它就显得不足了。
想象一下，一个问题的解决方案就像一座房子。

地基是解决方案赖以存在的假设。

如果它是低劣的，它就会倒塌。如果它是坚固的，它就会茁壮成长。

第一原则为房子打下了坚实的基础，使你能够在上面进行更有创造性的建设。
图片
为了使这一点成为现实，让我们看看第一原则思维在行动中的一个经典例子。

@elonmusk和@SpaceX

问题是什么？发送火箭到火星，开始使人类成为星际物种的进程。

不管是爱他还是恨他，这听起来确实很复杂......
图片
马斯克很快发现购买火箭的费用是个天文数字（双关语）--6500万美元左右。

这不仅在财务上是站不住脚的，而且也是建立在对火箭一直以来的建造方式以及它们应该花费多少钱的假设之上。

因此，他转向了第一原则。
他问了几个基础性问题。

火箭是由什么制成的？

航空航天级的铝合金、钛、铜和碳纤维。

这些材料在公开市场上的价值是多少？

仅仅是典型火箭价格的~2%!

所以他决定SpaceX将建造自己的火箭。
马斯克没有接受关于火箭成本的既定 "真理"，而是将他的问题解决建立在第一原则之上。

今天，@SpaceX的火箭正以历史成本的一小部分做着非凡的事情--火星航行的梦想似乎还活着。
图片
你如何利用第一原理的思维来创造更好的结果？

首先，确定它对你的问题是否必要，或者通过类比推理是否更适合。

作为一个经验法则。
- 对于速度/效率--类比
- 对于创造力/创新--第一原理 
假设第一原理思维是合适的途径，那么就从提出问题开始，深入问题的核心。

@ShaneAParrish称此为 "苏格拉底式提问"--把它看作是重新唤起你心中那贪得无厌的孩子。

这里有几个问题可以让你开始。
图片
我试图解决的问题是什么？

我们经常浪费时间和精力去解决 "错误 "的问题。找出 "正确 "的问题。

关于这个问题，我知道什么是真的？

写下你所知道的关于这个问题的一切（以及它以前尝试的解决方案）。
为什么我相信这些 "真理 "是真的？我怎么知道它们是真的？

找出你的信念的来源。要无情地评估它们的完整性。

我怎样才能支持这些信念？是否有真正的证据来支持它们？

找出能证明其真实性的确凿证据。
我的情绪是否影响了我的判断？

当情绪驱动我们的想法和决定时，我们很少看到好的结果。

可能存在哪些替代信念？

了解其他观点是一种超级能力。

错了会有什么后果？

一定要知道其中的利害关系! 
第一原则的思考是从质疑你的信念开始的。

提出这些问题将帮助你深入了解问题的基本真相，并最终建立起一个更有想象力的解决方案。
世界上充满了没有想象力的、模仿性的解决方案。

这些都可以预见地导致线性结果。

利用第一原则思考是紧张和耗时的，但它也是设计创造性解决方案的途径，可以推动非线性、不对称的结果。
这就是对第一原理思维的细分。我希望你觉得它有用。

关注我@SahilBloom，了解更多关于商业、金融、增长和决策的话题。

我将在我的通讯中进行深入探讨。请加入62,000多人的行列并订阅!