CHRISTIAN LIVING
Why Are We All So Restless?
Review: ‘Why We Are Restless’ by Benjamin Storey & Jenna Silber Storey
JANUARY 13, 2022  |  ANDREW WILSON


为什么我们都如此躁动不安？
评论。本杰明-斯托里和珍娜-西尔伯-斯托里的《我们为什么不安分》一书

Few writers can capture the spirit of a society in a single paragraph. Even fewer can do it in ways that remain painfully insightful 200 years later. That is what makes Alexis de Tocqueville’s comment on the United States in the 1830s so striking:

很少有作家能在一个段落中抓住一个社会的精神。更少有人能做到在200年后仍然保持痛苦的洞察力。这就是亚历克西斯-德-托克维尔对19世纪30年代的美国的评论如此引人注目的原因。

It is a strange thing to see with what sort of feverish ardour Americans pursue well-being and how they show themselves constantly tormented by a vague fear of not having chosen the shortest route that can lead to it. The inhabitant of the United States attaches himself to the goods of this world as if he were assured of not dying, and he rushes so precipitately to grasp those that pass within his reach that one would say he fears at each instant he will cease to live before he has enjoyed them. He grasps them all but without clutching them, and he soon allows them to escape from his hands so as to run after new enjoyments. . . . Death finally comes, and it stops him before he has grown weary of this useless pursuit of a complete felicity that always flees from him. (511–14)

看到美国人以何种狂热的热情追求福祉，以及他们如何表现出对没有选择通往福祉的最短路线的隐约恐惧而不断折磨自己，这是一件奇怪的事情。美国居民对这个世界上的货物非常重视，就像他确信自己不会死一样，他急于抓住那些唾手可得的东西，以至于人们会说他担心在享受到这些东西之前，他就已经不活了。他抓住了所有的东西，但却没有抓住它们，而且他很快就允许它们从他的手中逃脱，以便去追求新的享受。. . . 死亡终于来了，在他对这种无用的、总是从他身边逃走的完整的快乐的追求感到厌倦之前，死亡就阻止了他。(511-14)

The restlessness of Americans fascinated Tocqueville. This vast continent of abundance, in which virtually everyone seemed to be middle class, was nevertheless characterized by a feverish, impatient, anxious, tormented, and grasping spirit. It was as if consumption did not actually bring contentment, as many confidently assumed that it would, and riches did not bring rest. Two centuries on, Tocqueville’s diagnosis still applies—and not just in America, but throughout the Western world.


美国人的躁动让托克维尔着迷。在这个广阔的富饶大陆上，几乎每个人都是中产阶级，但却有一种狂热、急躁、焦虑、煎熬和抓狂的精神特征。仿佛消费并没有真正带来满足感，就像许多人自信地认为它会带来满足感，而财富并没有带来休息。两个世纪过去了，托克维尔的诊断仍然适用--不仅仅是在美国，而是在整个西方世界。

That observation is at the heart of Benjamin Storey and Jenna Silber Storey’s wonderful new book, Why We Are Restless: On the Modern Quest for Contentment. It’s a remarkable piece of apologetics, not least because the authors never quite put their apologetic (or even Christian) cards on the table. Beautifully written and carefully argued, it’s as searching as it is subtle.

这一观察是本杰明-斯托里和珍娜-西尔伯-斯托里精彩的新书《我们为何不安》的核心。论现代人对满足感的追求。这是一本了不起的辩证法作品，尤其是因为作者从未将他们的辩证法（甚至是基督教）牌放在桌子上。这本书写得很好，论证也很仔细，它的探索性很强，也很微妙。

PURCHASE 
Why We Are Restless: On the Modern Quest for Contentment
BENJAMIN STOREY AND JENNA SILBER STOREY
We live in an age of unprecedented prosperity, yet everywhere we see signs that our pursuit of happiness has proven fruitless. Dissatisfied, we seek change for the sake of change―even if it means undermining the foundations of our common life. In Why We Are Restless, Benjamin and Jenna Storey offer a profound and beautiful reflection on the roots of this malaise and examine how we might begin to cure ourselves.

购买 
我们为什么不安宁？关于现代人对满足感的追求
本杰明-斯托里和珍娜-西尔伯-斯托里
我们生活在一个空前繁荣的时代，但我们到处都能看到我们对幸福的追求被证明是没有结果的迹象。由于不满意，我们为了改变而寻求改变，即使这意味着破坏我们共同生活的基础。在《我们为何不安》中，本杰明和珍娜-斯托里对这种萎靡不振的根源进行了深刻而美好的反思，并研究了我们如何开始治愈自己。

Drawing on the insights of Montaigne, Pascal, Rousseau, and Tocqueville, Why We Are Restless explores the modern vision of happiness that leads us on, and the disquiet that follows it like a lengthening shadow. In the sixteenth century, Montaigne articulated an original vision of human life that inspired people to see themselves as individuals dedicated to seeking contentment in the here and now, but Pascal argued that we cannot find happiness through pleasant self-seeking, only anguished God-seeking. Rousseau later tried and failed to rescue Montaigne’s worldliness from Pascal’s attack. Steeped in these debates, Tocqueville visited the United States in 1831 and, observing a people “restless in the midst of their well-being,” discovered what happens when an entire nation seeks worldly contentment―and finds mostly discontent.


借鉴蒙田、帕斯卡尔、卢梭和托克维尔的见解，《我们为何不安》探讨了引领我们前进的现代幸福观，以及像拉长的阴影一样紧随其后的不安。在十六世纪，蒙田阐述了人类生活的原始愿景，激励人们将自己视为致力于在此时此地寻求满足的个体，但帕斯卡尔认为，我们无法通过愉快的自我寻求找到幸福，只能通过痛苦的上帝寻求。卢梭后来试图从帕斯卡尔的攻击中拯救蒙田的世俗主义，但却失败了。托克维尔沉浸在这些辩论中，于1831年访问了美国，并观察到一个 "在他们的福祉中不安 "的民族，发现当整个国家寻求世俗的满足时，会发生什么--发现大部分是不满。

Arguing that the philosophy we have inherited, despite pretending to let us live as we please, produces remarkably homogenous and unhappy lives, Why We Are Restless makes the case that finding true contentment requires rethinking our most basic assumptions about happiness.


他认为，我们所继承的哲学尽管假装让我们随心所欲地生活，但却产生了明显的同质化和不快乐的生活，《我们为何不安》指出，要找到真正的满足感，需要重新思考我们关于幸福的最基本假设。

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS. 264 PP.
Contented Restlessness

普林斯顿大学出版社。264页。
知足常乐》（Contented Restlessness

Using the work of four French writers—Montaigne (16th century), Pascal (17th), Rousseau (18th), and Tocqueville (19th)—the Storeys (both professors at Furman University) examine the ways in which human beings try to find rest and happiness and why so many of them end in failure.

利用四位法国作家的作品--蒙田（16世纪）、帕斯卡尔（17世纪）、卢梭（18世纪）和托克维尔（19世纪）--斯托雷夫妇（两人都是弗曼大学的教授）研究了人类试图寻找休息和幸福的方式，以及为什么其中许多人以失败告终。

Restlessness, the Storeys argue, pervades American life. You can see it everywhere: “in our love for the screen, with its diversions and distractions; in our demand for endless variety in what we eat, drink and wear; in our appetite for mind-altering substances, from pot to Prozac to Pinot Grigio; in our fascination with crises in almost every area of human life” (x–xi). Curiously, they note, restlessness seems to increase with privilege rather than the reverse. The modern middle class, as Tocqueville put it, is “restless in the midst of their well-being.”

Storeys认为，美国人的生活中充斥着躁动。你可以到处看到它。"在我们对屏幕的热爱，以及它的转移和分心；在我们对吃、喝、穿的无尽变化的要求；在我们对改变精神的物质的胃口，从大麻到百忧解到灰皮诺；在我们对人类生活几乎每个领域的危机的迷恋中"（x-xi）。奇怪的是，他们指出，烦躁不安似乎随着特权的增加而增加，而不是相反。正如托克维尔所说，现代中产阶级 "在他们的福祉中不安分"。

But why? Where does this sense of peaceless unease come from? And what can be done about it?

Where does this sense of peaceless unease come from? And what can be done about it?

但为什么呢？这种没有和平的不安感从何而来？对此又能做些什么呢？

这种无和平的不安感从何而来？又能做些什么呢？
 
Four Important Thinkers
For Michel de Montaigne (1533–92), our problem is simply that we’re too concerned with what lies beyond ourselves. Rather than searching for meaning outside of our natural lives—in religion, virtue, honor, knowledge, or whatever—we need to learn instead to practice immanent contentment. The key to happiness lies in simply being at home in oneself and the world: it’s the pursuit of “mere life, life for its own sake, life without the orienting norms of philosophy, politics or faith” (22). Today we might describe it using language like “being present” or “mindfulness.” Happiness is here, not in a world beyond, and we can find it by practicing the right way of life, “oriented by the quest for immanent contentment, for psychic equilibrium in our inner lives and unmediated approbation in our social lives” (48).

四位重要的思想家
对于米歇尔-蒙田（1533-92）来说，我们的问题仅仅在于我们过于关注自身之外的东西。与其在我们的自然生活之外寻找意义--宗教、美德、荣誉、知识或其他什么--我们不如学习实践内在的满足感。幸福的关键在于简单地在自己和世界中自在地生活：它是对 "单纯的生活，为其本身而生活，没有哲学、政治或信仰的定向规范的生活 "的追求（22）。今天，我们可能用 "在场 "或 "正念 "这样的语言来描述它。幸福就在这里，而不是在另一个世界，我们可以通过实践正确的生活方式来找到它，"以追求内在的满足感为导向，在我们的内在生活中追求心理平衡，在我们的社会生活中追求无中介的认可" (48)。

To which Blaise Pascal (1623–62), in a nutshell, says: bunk. For Pascal, Montaigne has dramatically understated the problem. He’s accepted trivial and fleeting pleasures as a substitute for real joy, which gets us nowhere, and his proposal is essentially naive. Human beings don’t want platitudes and deflection and a smattering of diversions to keep us distracted; we want truth, and justice, and love, and eternity, and ultimately God.

对此，布莱斯-帕斯卡尔（1623-62）一言以蔽之：垃圾。对帕斯卡尔来说，蒙田极大地低估了问题的严重性。他接受了琐碎和短暂的快乐作为真正的快乐的替代品，这让我们无从下手，而且他的建议本质上是天真的。人类并不想要陈词滥调和转弯抹角，以及让我们分心的零星转移；我们想要真理、正义、爱、永恒，以及最终的上帝。

But we are ignorant, finite, and destined for death. And that means that without the grace of God we’ll be miserable: “Our consciousness of our own mortality and our awareness of our own ignorance make us unhappy. . . . No psychic equilibrium is possible for a being whose desires so radically outstrip his possibilities. Misery follows ineluctably from an honest estimate of the gap between what we want and what we are” (66). We have a deeper problem than Montaigne admits, and we need a deeper solution. Thus Pascal, though he seems more pessimistic than Montaigne, actually seeks a far richer sort of joy and refuses to settle for anything less. This joy, he concludes, can only be found in Christ.

但我们是无知的，有限的，而且注定要死亡。而这意味着，如果没有上帝的恩典，我们将是悲惨的。"我们对自己死亡的意识和对自己无知的意识使我们不快乐。. . . 对于一个欲望完全超出其可能性的人来说，不可能实现心理平衡。痛苦不可避免地来自于对我们想要什么和我们是什么之间差距的诚实估计"（66）。我们有一个比蒙田承认的更深的问题，我们需要一个更深的解决方案。因此，帕斯卡尔，尽管他看起来比蒙田更悲观，但实际上他寻求的是一种更丰富的快乐，并拒绝满足于任何其他的东西。他的结论是，这种快乐只有在基督里才能找到。

Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712–78) recognizes that Pascal is onto something—the socialites and philosophes of 18th century Paris are indeed secretly miserable—but he wants to solve the problem a different way. “For Pascal,” the Storeys explain, “we are unhappy because we are alienated from God. For Rousseau, we are unhappy because we are alienated from ourselves. For Pascal, nature is fallen but can be redeemed by God. For Rousseau, man is fallen but can be redeemed by nature” (102). Thus begins a quest to find wholeness by going “all in” on something: solitude, society, citizenship, individualism, education, family. Rousseau pursues each one and finds the contentment he craves to be a mirage every time. His friendships collapse, his family life is a disaster, his experiments in citizenship and education fail; even solitude does not bring him rest.

让-雅克-卢梭（Jean-Jacques Rousseau，1712-78）认识到帕斯卡尔的观点--18世纪巴黎的社会名流和哲学家们确实在暗地里感到痛苦，但他想用不同的方式来解决问题。"对于帕斯卡尔来说，"斯托雷夫妇解释说，"我们不快乐是因为我们与上帝疏远了。对卢梭来说，我们不快乐是因为我们与自己疏远了。对帕斯卡尔来说，自然是堕落的，但可以被上帝救赎。对卢梭来说，人是堕落的，但可以被自然所救赎"（102）。因此，通过 "全力以赴 "去寻找整体性的追求开始了：孤独、社会、公民权、个人主义、教育、家庭。卢梭追求每一种东西，却发现他所渴望的满足感每次都是一种幻觉。他的友谊崩溃了，他的家庭生活是一场灾难，他在公民权和教育方面的实验失败了；甚至孤独也没有给他带来安宁。


[Pascal] seeks a far richer sort of joy and refuses to settle for anything less. This joy, he concludes, can only be found in Christ.

帕斯卡尔寻求一种更丰富的快乐，并拒绝满足于任何其他的东西。他的结论是，这种快乐只有在基督里才能找到。

 
But there are lessons to learn from his failures. “Rousseau is like a chemist in a laboratory whose daring combinations of elements have blown up in his face: the experiment kills its author but leaves a telling residue in his beakers” (139). It’s a tragic but instructive legacy. “The modern quest for immanent contentment is destined to leave us as restless as ever, no matter how wholeheartedly we give ourselves to it” (139).

但从他的失败中也可以学到一些教训。"卢梭就像实验室里的化学家，其大胆的元素组合在他面前炸开了锅：实验杀死了它的作者，但在他的烧杯里留下了明显的残留物"（139）。这是一个悲剧性的，但却具有指导意义的遗产。"现代人对内在满足的追求注定要让我们像以前一样坐立不安，无论我们多么全心全意地投入其中"（139）。

Which takes us back to Tocqueville (1805–59) and his analysis of American restlessness. Tocqueville, like Pascal, suspects that a turbulent unease lies beneath all the Montaignesque talk of prosperity—to say nothing of equality, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness—and the greater the prosperity, the greater the restlessness. His writings are an attempt to teach Americans “the Pascalian lesson that the goods that are their treasure, the justice that is their pride, and the happiness that is their aim can never be enough for a human soul” (144).

这让我们回到了托克维尔（1805-59）和他对美国人躁动的分析。托克维尔和帕斯卡尔一样，怀疑在所有蒙太奇式的繁荣言论--更不用说平等、自由和对幸福的追求--下面隐藏着一种动荡不安的情绪，繁荣越大，不安越大。他的著作试图教导美国人 "帕斯卡尔式的教训，即作为他们财富的货物、作为他们骄傲的正义和作为他们目标的幸福对人类的灵魂来说永远是不够的"（144）。

It’s a tough sell. Americans, like the modern West in general, are inclined to see the world in immanent, material terms, which makes it harder to believe in the soul and harder to ask deep questions about meaning, spirituality, and transcendence. But that’s exactly the problem. “Without self-knowledge to guide it, the quest for the good life becomes a slapdash sequence of locations, vocations and vacations” (163).

这是一个艰难的销售。美国人，就像一般的现代西方人一样，倾向于从内在的、物质的角度来看待世界，这使得人们更难相信灵魂，更难提出关于意义、精神性和超越性的深层问题。但这恰恰是问题所在。"如果没有自知之明的指导，对美好生活的追求就会变成一连串的地点、职业和假期的草率行为"（163）。

Inevitable Restlessness
Why We Are Restless is a book of exposition, not exhortation. There are no next steps, no knockdown arguments, and no points of application. It does a magnificent job of summarizing four hugely important thinkers with impressive clarity, wit, and brevity and raises some profound questions about the modern quest for happiness in the process. But it’s not a practical guide for how to respond. As such, it’s only fair to say that it wouldn’t be everybody’s cup of tea.

不可避免的躁动
我们为什么不安宁》是一本阐述性的书，而不是劝诫性的。书中没有下一步行动，没有令人信服的论据，也没有应用的要点。它以令人印象深刻的清晰、机智和简洁，出色地总结了四位极为重要的思想家，并在此过程中提出了一些关于现代人追求幸福的深刻问题。但它并不是一个关于如何应对的实用指南。因此，只能说它不是每个人都喜欢的那杯茶。

In my view, however, the Storeys have put their finger on something of tremendous significance for evangelism and apologetics in the post-Christian West. In a flat world, where transcendence has been lost and everything is immanent, restlessness is inevitable. As they explain,

然而，在我看来，斯托雷夫妇已经把他们的手指放在了对后基督教西方的福音传播和道歉有巨大意义的东西上。在一个平坦的世界里，超越性已经丧失，一切都迫在眉睫，躁动是不可避免的。正如他们解释的那样。

Pascal reveals the misery that haunts the quest for immanent contentment like a shadow. That misery—carefully hidden but constantly revealed in the love of diversion so characteristic of modern men and women—is the enduring sign of the mismatch between the kind of happiness we pursue and the kind of beings we are. (178, emphasis added)

帕斯卡尔揭示了像影子一样萦绕着对内在满足的追求的痛苦。这种苦难--小心翼翼地隐藏起来，但在现代男女所特有的对消遣的热爱中不断显露出来--是我们所追求的幸福与我们是什么样的人之间不匹配的持久标志。(178, emphasis added)



But that, of course, presents a powerful opportunity for anyone who is Augustinian enough to see it: “For you made us for yourself, O Lord, and our hearts are restless until they find their rest in you.”

但是，这当然为任何有足够奥古斯丁精神的人提供了一个强大的机会。"主啊，你为自己造了我们，我们的心不安，直到在你那里找到安息"。

Andrew Wilson is the teaching pastor at King’s Church, London. He’s the author of God of All Things: Rediscovering the Sacred in an Everyday World (Zondervan, 2021). Follow him on Twitter (@AJWTheology).

安德鲁-威尔逊是伦敦国王教堂的教学牧师。他是《万物之神》的作者。在日常世界中重新发现神圣》（Zondervan, 2021）。在Twitter上关注他（@AJWTheology）。