Take It from Me: Don’t Get a Divorce
JANUARY 26, 2021  |  LAURA BAXTER

听我说：不要离婚
2021年1月26日 | 劳拉-巴克斯特

My dear friend,

I was saddened, but not wholly surprised, to hear you are thinking about divorce.

我亲爱的朋友。

听说你在考虑离婚，我感到难过，但并不完全惊讶。

As I understand it, over the years you and your husband have argued with increasing bitterness. He doesn’t appreciate your many sacrifices on his behalf. He’s not a great provider. Glued to his phone, he ignores the kids and their needs unless you remind him. You look at old photos and cry, unable to recapture the passion you know you must have felt. It’s hard to admit, but sometimes you feel repulsed by the man you are supposed to love. The world is in crisis, and your marriage feels like one more disaster. You want out.

据我所知，多年来，你和你丈夫的争吵越来越激烈。他不感激你为他所做出的牺牲。他不是一个给力的养家之人。除非你提醒他，他整天粘在手机上，眼中没有孩子，也忽视了他们的需求。你对着旧照片以泪洗面，你知道你们俩应该沐浴爱河，但覆水已难收。尽管不愿意承认，但有时你会对你应该爱的这个男人人感到厌恶。世界正处于危机之中，而你的婚姻感觉像是又一场灾难。你想走人。
 
I know you love Christ and want to serve him. You also know that God forbids divorce, except in certain cases like adultery, abuse, and abandonment (Matt. 5:23; 1 Cor. 7:15). But you are struggling. You don’t have biblical grounds for divorce, but your marriage is loveless and filled with fighting. It’s hard to imagine God wants you to stay.

我知道你爱基督并且愿意服事他。你也知道上帝禁止离婚，除非在某些情况下，如通奸、虐待和遗弃（马太福音5:23；林前7:15）。但是你在挣扎。你没有圣经上允许的离婚理由，但你们的婚姻是无爱的，充满了争吵。你很难想象上帝希望你留下来。

Redemptive Imagination

This is the place where imagination is most needed. I want you to see and believe that marriage is bigger, much bigger, than our individual happiness. God himself conducted the first wedding ceremony, fashioning Eve and presenting her to Adam (Gen. 2:21–24). Even after sin entered the world, God’s good plan for marriage continued. Jesus still said, “What God has joined together, let not man separate” (Mark 10:9). Divorce goes against created order, rips the cosmos.

救赎的想象力

这是最需要想象力的地方。我想让你看到并相信，婚姻比我们个人的幸福要大，大得多。上帝亲自主持了第一个婚礼仪式，塑造了夏娃并将她托付给亚当（创2:21-24）。即使在罪进入世界之后，上帝对婚姻的美好计划仍在继续。耶稣仍然说："神所结合的，人不可分开"（马可福音10：9）。离婚违背了创造的秩序，撕裂了世界。

Divorce also spoils our witness to the gospel. Marriage is a living metaphor of Christ and the church (Eph. 5:22–33). Of course, fallen husbands do not, and cannot, love their wives as deeply as Christ loves the church. And until the day sin is finally vanquished, fallen wives will struggle to submit to their husbands. We model spiritual truths imperfectly. Even so, the gospel shines through our embodied picture, sometimes loudly and sometimes softly—until divorce shatters that picture.

离婚也破坏了我们对福音的见证。婚姻是基督和教会关系的鲜活的预表（以弗所5:22-33）。当然，堕落的丈夫们不会也不可能像基督爱教会那样深爱他们的妻子。而且直到罪最终被征服的那一天，堕落的妻子将挣扎着顺服她们的丈夫。我们对属灵真理的塑造并不完美。即便如此，福音还是通过我们体现的画面闪耀，有时很明亮，有时很柔和--直到离婚打碎这幅画面。

Perhaps your imagination still fails you. Intellectually, you understand God’s great design for marriage. At the same time, it seems impossible to remain, day after day, with this husband who continually fails you. May I offer some thoughts from hard experience?

也许你的想象力仍然让你失望。在理智上，你明白上帝对婚姻的伟大设计。同时，你又似乎不可能日复一日地和这个不断让你失望的丈夫在一起。我可以从艰辛的经验中提供一些想法吗？

I Have Been There
I was divorced after three children and 10 years of marriage. Since that time, almost two decades ago, I have counseled many women weathering divorce and its aftermath. I can tell you confidently that divorce is worse than you think. If you go through with divorce, you will experience extreme emotional distress, including sadness, anger, and shame. You will feel alone. Conflict with your husband will probably accelerate, pulling friends and family into the vortex. And you will lose any semblance of control over your life.

我也曾经历过

我在结婚十年后有了三个孩子后离婚了。从那时起，差不多二十年前，我为许多正在经历离婚及其后果的妇女提供咨询。我可以自信地告诉你，离婚比你想象得更糟糕。如果你经历了离婚，你会经历极端的情绪困扰，包括悲伤、愤怒和羞愧。你会感到孤独。与你丈夫的冲突可能会加速，把朋友和家人卷入漩涡中，而且你将失去对自己生活的任何控制。

Perhaps you are prepared for personal pain. Yet I implore you, my sister, to think about your children. For children, divorce “blows up the planet.” Your children will experience catastrophic levels of emotional distress, unmitigated by the maturity of adult understanding. In addition, decades of research have shown us that children in single-parent households are more vulnerable to poverty, abuse, and school failure.

也许你已经准备好接受个人的痛苦。然而，我恳求你，我的姐妹，为你的孩子着想。对孩子来说，离婚 "炸毁了这个星球"。你的孩子将经历灾难性的情感痛苦，即便是到了他们长大成人懂事的时候也无法缓解。此外，几十年的研究表明，单亲家庭的孩子更容易陷入贫困、虐待和学业失败。

My children endured a staggering level of psychological trauma from my divorce and the subsequent custody litigation. Countless therapy appointments did little to ease their existential wounds. Today, we hug each other and thank God, with tears, that we made it to the other side. For more than a decade, that outcome was far from certain.

我的孩子在我的离婚和随后的监护权诉讼中承受了惊人的心理创伤。无数次的心理治疗对缓解他们的生存创伤作用甚微。今天，我们互相拥抱，流着泪感谢上帝，因为我们挺过来了。但是有十多年的时间，世事茫茫，前途未卜。
 
I also wonder whether you have counted the financial impact of divorce (Luke 14:28–32). It seems your finances are already stretched, and a source of conflict. Divorce will stretch them further, to the breaking point and beyond.

我还想知道你是否计算过离婚对经济的影响（路加福音14：28-32）。看来你们的财务状况已经捉襟见肘了，而且是冲突的根源。离婚将使它们雪上加霜，达到崩溃的边缘，甚至更糟。

First, it is always more expensive to maintain two households. Expect your standard of living to drop immediately. You may have to live with parents, or move into a smaller apartment with roommates.

首先，维持两个家庭总是更加昂贵。预计你的生活水平会立即下降。你可能不得不和父母同住，或搬到一个较小的公寓与室友住在一起。

Second, it is difficult to get a divorce without attorney involvement. And lawyers are incredibly expensive. Even if you have parents or other family members willing to help now, they will soon realize that divorce is a money pit. Think home-mortgage levels of debt, but with nothing to show for it.

第二，如果没有律师的参与，很难离婚。而律师是非常昂贵的。即使你现在有父母或其他家庭成员愿意帮忙，他们很快就会意识到，离婚是一个钱坑。想想看，你将负上房贷级别的债务，但又看不到房子。

You may have hopes for a loving, happy relationship post-divorce, with a different man. Although some women do remarry, the grass is rarely greener on the other side. My husband, John, and I have been married for 17 years. During premarital counseling, our pastor warned us that blended family life is hard, and that second marriages have a higher rate of divorce than first marriages. We forged ahead, believing our love would beat the odds.

你可能希望在离婚后与不同的男人建立一种基于爱情的、幸福的关系。虽然有些妇女确实再婚了，但另一边的草很少是绿色的。我的丈夫约翰和我已经结婚17年了。在婚前咨询中，我们的牧师警告我们，混合家庭的生活是艰难的，而且第二次婚姻的离婚率比第一次婚姻高。我们勇往直前，相信我们的爱会战胜困难。

Solely through the grace of God, John and I did make it to the other side. Our kids are grown now, and we are happy and thankful to be married to each other. But our pastor was also right. Blended family life was very, very hard. Again, for more than a decade, the outcome was far from certain.

全靠上帝的恩典，约翰和我确实走到了另一边。我们的孩子现在已经长大了，我们很高兴也很感谢能与对方结婚。但我们的牧师也是对的。混合家庭的生活非常、非常艰难。同样，在十多年的时间里，世事茫茫，前途未卜。

Now What?
God hates divorce, and for good reason (Mal. 2:16). Christians must learn to hate what God hates, including divorce (Ps. 139:21-22). I urge you, in the power Christ provides, to fight tirelessly for your marriage. Trust that God has given you all the resources you need to be faithful.

现在怎么办？
上帝憎恨离婚，而且有充分的理由（玛2:16）。基督徒必须学会恨上帝所恨的，包括离婚（诗139：21-22）。我劝你，依靠基督提供的力量，为你的婚姻不知疲倦地去战斗。相信神已经给了你一切所需的资源，让你尽忠。

Use this time to turbo-charge your private prayer and Scripture reading. Seek counsel from church elders and older, wiser believers. If your husband agrees to go with you, great. But if not, go alone. The most important battle is in your own heart, resisting the voices of envy and discontent. Beg God for strength to forgive the past, to treat your husband kindly, one day at a time, especially when he doesn’t deserve it.

利用这段时间为你的个人祷告和读经提供澎湃动力。向教会的长老和年长的、有智慧的信徒寻求建议。如果你的丈夫同意和你一起去，太好了；但是如果他不同意，就自己去。最重要的战斗发生在你自己的心里，抵制嫉妒和不满的声音。祈求神给你力量，原谅过去，善待你的丈夫，一天一个样，特别是在他不值得的时候。
 
Of course, your marriage may still be torn asunder, despite your best efforts. I had to face the sad fact that restoration of my first marriage was not possible. Nonetheless, we know God’s grace is sufficient in our weakness (2 Cor. 12:9). Even through the Valley of the Shadow of Death (an apt description of divorce), God promises to walk with us (Ps. 23:4). But for now, while your marriage still lives, there is hope (Eccl. 9:4).

当然，尽管你做出了最大的努力，你的婚姻仍然可能会破碎。我当初不得不面对一个可悲的事实是，恢复我的第一段婚姻已经不可能了。尽管如此，我们知道神的恩典是够我们用的，并且在我们的软弱上显得完全（林后12:9）。即使经过死荫的幽谷（对离婚的恰当描述），神也承诺与我们同在（诗篇23：4）。但是现在，当你的婚姻仍然存续时，还有希望（传9:4）。

For yourself, your family, and the gospel, I pray you will firmly and finally put all thought of divorce behind you. Take up your cross and follow Christ in all things (Matt. 16:24–25). He promises you will find abundant life.

为了你自己、你的家庭和福音，我祈祷你能坚定地最终将所有离婚的想法抛在脑后。背起你的十字架，在所有事情上跟随基督（马太福音16:24-25）。他保证你会找到丰盛的生命。

Laura Baxter practices law and teaches at her local university. She attends Church of the Redeemer in West Monroe, Louisiana. You can read more of her work at stirfrylaura, and her devotional book on Job is available on Amazon.

作者简介：劳拉·巴克斯特（Laura Baxter）从事法律工作并在当地大学任教。她属于路易斯安那州西门罗的救世主教会。你可以在她的博客上（ https://stirfrylaura.wordpress.com/） 上阅读她更多的作品，她关于《约伯记》的灵修书在亚马逊上有售。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/dont-get-divorce/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：Take It from Me: Don’t Get a Divorce

作者：Laura Baxter

本文简介：当爱在婚姻中渐渐消逝，离婚的选项变得很具诱惑力。但是，过来人会告诉你，不符合圣经的离婚不但不能解决问题，反而会让一切更糟糕。它戕害当事人的心灵，恶化经济状况，影响子女的成长，再婚找到真爱的梦想往往成为泡影，更严重的是破坏人与神之间的关系。

本文栏目：基督徒生活

本文标签：婚姻

译者署名：PSJ
