https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/whataboutism-foolishness/

Whataboutism Is a Mark of Foolishness
JANUARY 15, 2021  |  BRETT MCCRACKEN
SHARE
TWEET
EMAIL
Advertise on TGC

“又怎么说主义”是愚昧的标志


We’re supposedly the most scientifically advanced, enlightened, informed generation in human history. We have the entire accumulated knowledge of humankind on devices in our pockets, after all. One would think this abundance of information would be making us more wise.

我们应该是人类历史上科学最先进、最开明、最知情的一代。毕竟，我们的口袋里装着人类积累的全部知识。人们会认为这种丰富的信息会使我们更有智慧。

But then we witness surreal scenes like what happened at the U.S. Capitol. Are we living in fifth-century or ninth-century Europe, witnessing the Visigoths sack Rome or the vikings raid Northumbria? Are we watching orcs breach Helm’s Deep in Middle-earth? No, this is 21st-century life in the most powerful nation in the world. And we are as foolish and barbaric as any generation prior.

但是，我们却目睹了像在美国国会大厦发生的超现实的场景。我们是否生活在五世纪或九世纪的欧洲，目睹西哥特人洗劫罗马或维京人袭击诺森比亚？我们是在看着兽人攻破中土世界的赫尔姆深渊吗？不，这是21世纪世界上最强大国家的生活。而我们和之前的任何一代人一样愚蠢和野蛮。

The Capitol insurrection was horrifying enough as a spectacle of foolishness and symbol of civilizational decay. But another horrifying exhibit of foolishness has been the reactions to the event on social media. Namely, the widespread deployment of one of the laziest tactics to hit rhetoric since the ad hominem: whataboutism.

国会大厦的叛乱作为一个愚蠢的景象和文明衰败的象征，已经足够可怕了。但另一个可怕的愚蠢表现是社交媒体上对该事件的反应。也就是说，广泛部署了自广告语以来最懒惰的战术之一：什么主义。

What Is Whataboutism?

“又怎么说主义”是什么？

Whataboutism turns the tables in an argument by responding to one accusation by deflecting to something else egregious, even if unrelated: “Yeah, well what about ______?” In the world of logical fallacies it’s a form of a false dichotomy and closely related to bothsidesism—another tactic of turning attention away from one wrong by suggesting another side is equally guilty of similar wrongs.

Whataboutism在争论中颠倒黑白，对一项指责作出回应，转而说其他令人震惊的事情，即使是无关的事情。"是的，那么______ 呢？" 在逻辑谬误的世界里，这是一种错误的二分法，与两面派主义密切相关--通过暗示另一方同样犯有类似的错误来转移人们对一个错误的注意力的另一种策略。

We see whataboutism every day (probably every minute) on social media, but it was especially prevalent following the Capitol insurrection. Instead of simply denouncing and disavowing the mob’s deadly behavior, many social-media users (including an alarming number of Christians) offered “what about?” comparisons to 2020’s various unlawfully destructive BLM and Antifa protests. Then, the “what abouts” turned to social-media censorship, as throngs of Trump defenders deflected attention from the Capitol attack by pointing to encroachments on free speech by Big Tech.

我们每天（可能每分钟）都能在社交媒体上看到什么主义，但它在国会大厦叛乱后尤其盛行。许多社交媒体用户（包括数量惊人的基督徒）不是简单地谴责和否定暴徒的致命行为，而是将 "怎么样？"与2020年各种非法破坏性的BLM和Antifa抗议活动进行比较。然后，"怎么办 "变成了社交媒体审查制度，大批特朗普的辩护人通过指出大科技公司对言论自由的侵犯来转移对国会大厦袭击的注意力。

The reality is we can critique both the Capitol insurrection and the Antifa protests. We should be alarmed both by Trump spreading dangerous falsehoods on Twitter and by Twitter censorship. But it’s one thing to recognize the dangers of and speak out about both; it’s another to use one to downplay the gravity of the other. The ability to recognize problems on all sides is wisdom. The assumption that action on one front necessarily makes one vulnerable on another front is folly. 

现实情况是，我们可以同时批评国会大厦的叛乱和反法组织的抗议活动。我们应该对特朗普在推特上散布危险的谎言和推特审查制度都感到震惊。但是，认识到这两者的危险并大声疾呼是一回事；用其中一个来淡化另一个的严重性是另一回事。认识到所有方面的问题的能力是一种智慧。假设在一条战线上的行动必然使人在另一条战线上受到伤害是愚蠢的。

The ability to recognize problems on all sides is wisdom. The assumption that action on one front necessarily makes one vulnerable on another front is folly.

识别各方问题的能力是一种智慧。假设在一条战线上的行动必然使人在另一条战线上受到伤害是愚蠢的。
 
Christians especially can and must be multi-directional rather than tribalistic in how we see threats. We can be concerned about more than one thing at the same time, even if certain moments (like the Capitol mob) require us to be decisively vocal about this threat in this moment, rather than quickly deflecting with a “what about____?!!” out of fear that some will forget other things are still threats, too.

基督徒在看待威胁时，尤其可以而且必须是多方向的，而不是部落主义的。我们可以同时关注不止一件事，即使某些时刻（如国会大厦的暴徒）要求我们在这个时刻果断地说出这个威胁，而不是因为担心有人会忘记其他事情也是威胁而迅速转移话题 "什么____？！"。

Intellectual Laziness

知识分子的懒惰


Whatboutism is a temptation for everyone online. In the hours after the Capitol insurrection, I saw loads of tweets by progressive-leaning Christians saying something to the effect of, “See! All this talk of CRT (critical race theory) being such a threat—ha! Clearly the biggest threat is CN (Christian nationalism)!” This sub-genre of whataboutism (“this problem is the real threat!”) is both annoying and intellectually lazy. If a bridge collapsed in a city, of course it would make sense that calls to fix crumbling infrastructure would take on new urgency. But it would not make sense to then say, “See, all you people going on about the urgent needs of our city’s homelessness crisis are off base and distracting us from the real threat!” 

Whatboutism是对每个人在网上的一种诱惑。在国会大厦暴动后的几个小时里，我看到进步倾向的基督徒在推特上说："看！所有这些关于CRT（批判性种族理论）是如此的威胁-哈！"。很明显，最大的威胁是CN（基督教民族主义）！" 这种子类型的什么主义（"这个问题才是真正的威胁！"）既令人厌烦，也是智力上的懒惰。如果一个城市的一座桥倒塌了，当然，呼吁修复摇摇欲坠的基础设施会有新的紧迫感。但如果说："你看，你们所有的人都在讨论我们城市无家可归者危机的迫切需求，这是不对的，分散了我们对真正威胁的注意力！" 

Leaders at all levels understand they can and must address multiple threats simultaneously. The pandemic has made this clear. That the public-health crisis needs urgent attention does not mean the economic or mental-health crises should be downplayed or ignored. All three must be simultaneously addressed. 

各级领导人都明白，他们可以而且必须同时应对多种威胁。这场大流行已经清楚地表明了这一点。公共卫生危机需要紧急关注并不意味着经济或精神健康危机应该被淡化或忽视。三者必须同时解决。

Leaders at all levels understand they can and must address multiple threats simultaneously.

 各级领导都明白他们可以而且必须同时解决多种威胁。


Christians need to be able to recognize the threats posed by CRT and those posed by CN. To be sure, recognizing their respective dangers does not mean placing them on equal footing or claiming they’re equally dangerous. It simply means we’re honest that they’re both dangerous, in different ways, to different degrees, and that while triage and prioritization are essential, we must ultimately guard against both.

基督徒需要能够认识到CRT所带来的威胁和CN所带来的威胁。可以肯定的是，认识到它们各自的危险并不意味着将它们放在同等的位置上，或声称它们同样危险。它只是意味着我们要诚实地认识到，它们都是危险的，以不同的方式，在不同的程度上，虽然分流和优先次序是必要的，但我们最终必须防范这两种危险。

Why are Christians today so bad at this? Why, when a Christian leader writes or speaks out about the evils of racism, is there predictable whataboutism that responds with “now do abortion”? Almost always, a quick Google search will reveal that said Christian leader has “done” abortion, rightly denouncing it just as vehemently as he or she has denounced racism. No soundbite, social-media post, or article can address every wrong and injustice in one fell swoop. To demand as much is intellectually dishonest.

为什么今天的基督徒在这方面如此糟糕？为什么当一个基督教领袖写下或说出种族主义的罪恶时，会有可预见的什么主义，以 "现在做堕胎 "作为回应？几乎总是这样，在谷歌上快速搜索就会发现，上述基督教领袖已经 "做了 "堕胎，正确地谴责了它，就像他或她谴责种族主义一样激烈。没有任何声音、社交媒体帖子或文章能够一举解决所有错误和不公正。这样的要求在智力上是不诚实的。

Ultimately, whataboutism is a convenient, lazy, and destructive rhetorical tactic that shrinks Christian faith to the narrow confines of tribalism’s partisan aims.

归根结底，什么主义是一种方便、懒惰和破坏性的修辞策略，它将基督教信仰缩减到部落主义的党派目标的狭窄范围内。

Root Problems

根源问题

What’s causing us to be so prone to whataboutism? In large part it’s because certain dynamics in our information age work against our wisdom and lead us to folly. I highlight three of these “sources of our sickness” in my new book, The Wisdom Pyramid:

是什么导致我们如此容易出现 "什么主义"？在很大程度上，这是因为我们信息时代的某些动力与我们的智慧背道而驰，导致我们走向愚蠢。我在新书《智慧金字塔》中强调了其中三个 "病源"。


1. Too much. Our brains are so taxed by overstimulation that they’re weakened in vital ways. Capacity for critical thinking is reduced. We cope with the glut by herding into tribes, over-simplifying problems, and resorting to logical fallacies (like whataboutism). It’s just easier. 

1. 太多了。我们的大脑被过度刺激所累，以至于它们在重要方面被削弱。批判性思维的能力下降。我们通过群居部落、过度简化问题和诉诸逻辑谬误（如什么什么主义）来应对过剩的问题。这只是更容易。

2. Too fast. The speed of information today works against our wisdom. Before we even consider the truth or prudence of what we’re about to post, we post it. The internet rage cycle moves too quickly to have time for nuance or big-picture awareness that today’s injustice doesn’t have to negate yesterday’s, or that the “breaking news” now doesn’t mean the “old news” problems have been solved.

2. 太快了。今天的信息速度对我们的智慧不利。我们甚至还没有考虑我们要发布的信息的真实性或谨慎性，我们就发布了。互联网的愤怒周期发展得太快了，没有时间去考虑细微的差别或大局意识，今天的不公正不一定要否定昨天的不公正，或者现在的 "重大新闻 "并不意味着 "旧新闻 "的问题已经解决了。

3. Too focused on me. The orientation of information around individuals—increasingly sorted into ever-more-insular echo chambers and bias-confirming bubbles—is perhaps the biggest root cause of rising whataboutism. In the narrow confines of your given tribalistic bubble, of course you’ll start to see this issue as the true scourge and those people as untrustworthy fools. Our bubbles bind and blind.

3.过于关注我。围绕个人的信息导向--越来越多地被分类为越来越孤立的回声室和确认偏见的泡沫--也许是什么主义上升的最大根源。在你给定的部落主义泡沫的狭窄范围内，你当然会开始把这个问题视为真正的祸害，把那些人视为不可信赖的傻瓜。我们的泡沫会束缚和蒙蔽。

What We Need

我们需要什么

Given the various ways the structure of the internet makes us more foolish and intellectually error-prone, what’s the solution? How can we become healthier and wiser, more able to address multiple threats and to triage through the landmine-filled glut of the digital age? 

鉴于互联网的结构以各种方式使我们更加愚昧，在智力上更容易出错，那么解决方案是什么？我们如何才能变得更健康、更聪明，更有能力应对多种威胁，并在数字时代的地雷堆里分流？

A key part of the solution should be cultivating a better knowledge diet—one oriented around trustworthy sources of lasting truth more than dubious sources of #trending buzz. If we’re increasingly foolish in the internet age, it’s likely because we spend inordinate amounts of time online—in spaces where unvetted, reckless, and deceptive information spreads like wildfire and boring old truth tends not to go viral.

解决方案的一个关键部分应该是培养更好的知识饮食--以值得信赖的持久真理来源为导向，而不是以可疑的#趋势性流行语来源为导向。如果我们在互联网时代越来越愚蠢，那很可能是因为我们在网上花费了过多的时间--在这个空间里，未经审核的、鲁莽的和欺骗性的信息像野火一样传播，而无聊的旧真理往往不会被病毒传播。

If we’re increasingly foolish in the internet age, it’s likely because we spend inordinate amounts of time online—in spaces where unvetted, reckless, and deceptive information spreads like wildfire and boring old truth tends not to go viral.

如果我们在互联网时代越来越愚蠢，那很可能是因为我们花了过多的时间在网上--在这个空间里，未经审核的、鲁莽的和欺骗性的信息像野火一样传播，而无聊的旧真理往往不会变成病毒。 

That’s why, in The Wisdom Pyramid, I argue that the internet and social media should occupy the least important place in our knowledge diet. If you’re looking to grow in logic, rhetoric, and critical thinking, don’t spend much time online. Put down your phone, exit your echo chamber, and look to better sources for wisdom—like the Bible, the church, nature, books, and beauty. More time in these nourishing spaces will help you become a clearer, more logical and versatile thinker. Even more importantly, it will help you become wise.
 
这就是为什么在《智慧金字塔》中，我认为互联网和社交媒体应该在我们的知识饮食中占据最不重要的位置。如果你想在逻辑、修辞和批判性思维方面有所发展，不要花太多时间在网上。放下你的手机，离开你的回音室，寻找更好的智慧来源，如圣经、教会、自然、书籍和美。在这些有营养的空间里花更多的时间将帮助你成为一个更清晰、更有逻辑性和更多变的思想者。更重要的是，它将帮助你变得有智慧。

Whataboutism is just one of many marks of foolishness we come to bear when the internet functions as the foundation of our knowledge diet rather than an occasional indulgence we consume in careful moderation. As the world grows in foolishness, believers in Jesus need to be intentional about cultivating healthier, slower, more balanced (and largely offline) habits of knowledge formation. If Christians—who have a framework for unshakeable truth foundations and a rich heritage of wisdom traditions—are not the ones bringing wise illumination to these new dark ages, no one will. 

当互联网作为我们知识饮食的基础，而不是我们小心翼翼地消费的偶尔放纵时，什么主义只是我们承担的许多愚蠢的标志之一。随着世界上愚昧的增长，耶稣的信徒们需要有意培养更健康、更缓慢、更平衡（而且主要是离线）的知识形成习惯。如果基督徒--他们拥有不可动摇的真理基础框架和丰富的智慧传统遗产--不是为这些新的黑暗时代带来智慧的照亮的人，就没有人会这样做。

Brett McCracken is a senior editor and director of communications at The Gospel Coalition. He is the author of The Wisdom Pyramid: Feeding Your Soul in a Post-Truth World, Uncomfortable: The Awkward and Essential Challenge of Christian Community, Gray Matters: Navigating the Space Between Legalism and Liberty, and Hipster Christianity: When Church and Cool Collide. Brett and his wife, Kira, live in Santa Ana, California, with their two sons. They belong to Southlands Church, and Brett serves as an elder. You can follow him on Twitter.

布雷特-麦克拉肯是福音联盟的高级编辑和通讯主管。他是《智慧金字塔》的作者。智慧金字塔：在一个后真理的世界中喂养你的灵魂》、《不舒服。基督教社区的尴尬和基本挑战》、《灰色事务》。灰色事务：在律法主义和自由之间导航》和《时髦的基督教》。当教会和酷的碰撞。布雷特和他的妻子基拉与他们的两个儿子住在加利福尼亚州的圣安娜。他们属于南地教会，布莱特担任长老。你可以在Twitter上关注他。