Brave New World, 85 Years Later
AUGUST 10, 2016  |  ALASTAIR ROBERTS

勇敢的新世界，85年后
2016年8月10日｜阿拉斯泰尔-罗伯茨

Still lauded as an especially timely word to our age, it may come as a surprise to learn that Aldous Huxley’s famous novel, Brave New World, turns 85 years old this year. As a work of futurological fiction, it has sparked much conversation about the values and ideologies explored within its imagined world. 

奥尔德斯-赫胥黎的著名小说《勇敢的新世界》今年已经85岁了，它仍然被称赞为对我们这个时代特别及时的文字，可能会让人惊讶。作为一部未来主义小说作品，它引发了许多关于在其想象的世界中探索的价值观和意识形态的对话。

This year’s anniversary affords us a welcome pretext to revisit Huxley’s classic and to reflect on its relevance to the contemporary world.

今年的周年纪念为我们提供了一个值得欢迎的借口，让我们重新审视赫胥黎的经典作品，并思考它与当代世界的关系。

New World Order 

Brave New World finds its narrative premise and its object of criticism in the ascendant Fordist ideology of Huxley’s day, projected into an unsettling dystopian future. Within Huxley’s World State, Henry Ford is revered as a semi-mythical messianic figure. He’s the basis of its dating system (the book’s events occur in the year 632 A.F.—After Ford), and his name—that of the founder of the new world—is now employed where God’s name was formerly used. Mass production and mass consumption of disposable products (“ending is better than mending”), as well as the values of predictability and uniformity, are fundamental principles of the world order.

新世界秩序 

勇敢的新世界》在赫胥黎时代的福特主义意识形态中找到了它的叙事前提和批评对象，并投射到一个令人不安的乌托邦式的未来。在赫胥黎的世界国家中，亨利-福特被推崇为半神话式的救世主人物。他是该书日期系统的基础（书中的事件发生在公元632年--福特之后），他的名字--新世界的创始人--现在被用于以前使用的上帝的名字。一次性产品的大规模生产和大规模消费（"结束胜于修补"），以及可预测性和统一性的价值观，是世界秩序的基本原则。

Human beings themselves have become the objects of the World State’s hyper-Fordism. Within a vast eugenics project, people are mass produced through advanced reproductive technologies and conditioning to be docile and serviceable participants in society, fully invested in the production and consumption that constitute its heart. There are five different castes or models of humanity, each carefully designed and conditioned to serve a given social purpose. Individuality and the particularism of familial or monogamous love are resisted as obstructions to social homogeneity and conformity—“everyone belongs to everyone else.”

人类本身已经成为世界国家的超级福特主义的对象。在一个庞大的优生学项目中，人们通过先进的生殖技术和条件被大量生产出来，成为社会中温顺和可服务的参与者，完全投入到构成社会核心的生产和消费中。人类有五个不同的种姓或模式，每个都被精心设计和调教，以服务于特定的社会目的。个性和家庭或一夫一妻制爱情的特殊性被视为社会同质性和一致性的障碍而受到抵制，"每个人都属于其他人"。

As children are molded through uniform production line processes, sexual reproduction, monogamy, and the notion of mothers and fathers have all come to be regarded with disgust. Citizens are encouraged to engage in sterile promiscuous sex, to make them complacent to their servitude and as a means of preventing particular attachments from arising. As Huxley remarks in his introduction, “As political and economic freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends compensatingly to increase.” Individuality and privacy are treated with suspicion.

当孩子们通过统一的生产线过程被塑造出来时，性繁殖、一夫一妻制以及母亲和父亲的概念都被厌恶地看待。公民们被鼓励从事不育的滥交，以使他们对自己的奴役感到自满，并作为防止产生特殊依恋的一种手段。正如赫胥黎在他的导言中所说的，"随着政治和经济自由的减少，性自由往往会补偿性地增加"。个性和隐私被怀疑地对待。

Infantilization of the population is government policy. The aging of the body and the maturing of the character and mind are arrested and prevented, maintaining the capacities and tastes of the World State’s citizens in a permanent adolescent state. A homogeneous mass entertainment culture promotes social cohesion and quiescence. Intense doses of sensation in the form of “feelies” (a sensually enhanced form of cinematic entertainment) and popular sports all encourage people to be the puerile playthings of their impulses and desires, incapable of delaying gratification, developing conviction, feeling deeply, or devoting wholly to any one cause. Minds saturated with sensation and pleasure—most notably through the wonder hallucinogenic drug “soma”—are inoculated against thought, reflection, and non-conformity.

人口的婴儿化是政府的政策。身体的衰老和性格与心智的成熟被阻止，使世界各国公民的能力和品味永远处于青春期状态。同质化的大众娱乐文化促进了社会的凝聚力和静止性。以 "feelies"（一种感官强化的电影娱乐形式）和流行的体育运动为形式的强烈感官刺激，都鼓励人们成为他们冲动和欲望的幼稚玩物，不能延迟满足，不能发展信念，不能深入感受，不能完全投入到任何一个事业中。充满感觉和快感的头脑--最明显的是通过神奇的致幻药物 "索玛"--被接种，以防止思考、反思和不守规矩。

[These] all encourage people to be the puerile playthings of their impulses and desires, incapable of delaying gratification, developing conviction, feeling deeply, or devoting wholly to any one cause. Minds saturated with sensation and pleasure . . . are inoculated against thought, reflection, and non-conformity.

[这些]都鼓励人们成为他们的冲动和欲望的幼稚玩物，不能延迟满足，不能发展信念，不能深入感受，也不能完全投入到任何一个事业中。充满感觉和快感的头脑......对思考、反思和不服输的精神产生了免疫。

Brave New World’s title is an ironic allusion to a line in Shakespeare’s The Tempest. Despite its apparent pleasantness, the technocratic and pleasure-sodden society of the World State asphyxiates all of the passions, morality, meanings, ideals, and values of character elevated in the writing of Shakespeare. Easy sex stifles romance. Conditioning and pharmaceutically secured “virtue” substitute for self-denial and character formation. Unrelenting comfort, pleasure, and the absence of struggle make nobility and heroism unnecessary. Poetry, sacrifice, meaning, and God himself have no place in such a world.

勇敢的新世界》的标题是对莎士比亚《暴风雨》中一句话的讽刺。尽管表面上很愉快，但世界国家的技术官僚和快乐的社会窒息了所有的激情、道德、意义、理想和莎士比亚笔下升华的人物价值观。轻松的性爱扼杀了浪漫。条件限制和药物保障的 "美德 "代替了自我否定和性格形成。无休止的舒适、快乐和缺乏斗争使高尚和英雄主义变得没有必要。诗歌、牺牲、意义和上帝本身在这样的世界中没有地位。

Unimaginable Reality 
Reading Brave New World can be a peculiar experience, as one is alternatively struck by amusingly quaint and alarmingly timely elements. Although the work has aged surprisingly well for futurological fiction, it’s nonetheless a product of its age. Despite Huxley’s prescience and perceptiveness, his vision was largely a projection from and escalation of the emerging dynamics of his age of mass production, mass consumption, and mass society.

无法想象的现实 
阅读《勇敢的新世界》可能是一种奇特的体验，因为人们会被有趣的古板和令人震惊的及时性元素所震撼。尽管对于未来主义小说来说，这部作品已经有了令人惊讶的老化，但它仍然是其时代的产物。尽管赫胥黎具有先见之明和敏锐的洞察力，但他的设想在很大程度上是对他所处的大规模生产、大规模消费和大规模社会时代的新兴动力的投射和升级。

Reading Brave New World can be a peculiar experience, as one is alternatively struck by amusingly quaint and alarmingly timely elements.

阅读《勇敢的新世界》可能是一种奇特的体验，因为人们会被有趣的古板和令人震惊的及时因素所震撼。
 
These dynamics have been superseded, or at least greatly complicated, by many subsequent developments. In a post-Fordist economy and a digital age of personalized devices, mass society is no longer as straightforward as it once seemed. Far from being perceived as a threat, for instance, individuality is now deeply assimilated into our economic system, as we’re encouraged to differentiate, identify, and align ourselves through our chosen forms of consumption. The fact we’re all caught up in the same system is less obvious when we all wear bespoke chains we’ve chosen for ourselves.

这些动力已经被后来的许多发展所取代，或者至少是大大复杂化了。在一个后福特主义经济和个性化设备的数字时代，大众社会不再像以前那样简单了。例如，个性远没有被视为一种威胁，现在已经深深地被我们的经济体系所同化，因为我们被鼓励通过我们选择的消费形式来区分、识别和调整自己。当我们都戴着我们自己选择的定制链子时，我们都被卷入同一个系统的事实就不那么明显了。

In fact, from our contemporary vantage point, a number of elements of Huxley’s vision seem far too conservative. Writing before the advent of modern genetics, Huxley couldn’t easily have imagined the direct genetic engineering of human beings now on our horizon and the degree of mastery over human nature this offers. Nor does he seem to have anticipated the form of sexuality in our age—the promiscuous sex in Brave New World is all heterosexual. Further, despite existing within a World State, the England providing the backdrop to Huxley’s narrative seems surprisingly provincial at points: Radical globalization had seemingly had limited effect.

事实上，从我们当代的有利地位来看，赫胥黎设想中的一些元素似乎过于保守。在现代遗传学出现之前，赫胥黎不可能轻易想象到我们现在对人类的直接基因工程，以及它对人性的掌握程度。他似乎也没有预见到我们这个时代的性爱形式--《勇敢的新世界》中的滥交都是异性恋。此外，尽管存在于一个世界国家中，但为赫胥黎的叙述提供背景的英国在某些方面似乎出人意料。激进的全球化似乎效果有限。

From our contemporary vantage point, a number of elements of Huxley’s vision seem far too conservative.

从我们当代的角度来看，赫胥黎的一些观点似乎过于保守。

One striking detail of Huxley’s portrayal is that, while the World State is founded on mass production, the process of automation is suppressed, with humans doing jobs that could easily be given to machines or algorithms (Huxley doesn’t explore the possibility of quasi-intelligent machines). From a contemporary vantage point it may require a significant suspension of disbelief to imagine such an economy might be tamed to serve a larger social end, even a dystopian one. Huxley may have feared a Fordist ideology concocted and imposed by “World Controllers” within a command economy—not an unrealistic fear in the age of rising Communism and Fascism; we now seem to have much more reason to fear our subjection to the autonomous and insatiable logic of a runaway capitalist system beyond human design or control.

赫胥黎描写的一个引人注目的细节是，虽然世界国家建立在大规模生产的基础上，但自动化的过程被压制了，人类从事的工作很容易被交给机器或算法（赫胥黎没有探讨准智能机器的可能性）。从当代的角度来看，想象这样一个经济可能被驯服以服务于更大的社会目的，甚至是一个反乌托邦的目的，可能需要很大的悬念。赫胥黎可能担心由 "世界控制者 "在命令式经济中炮制和强加的福特主义意识形态--在共产主义和法西斯主义崛起的时代，这种担心并非不现实；我们现在似乎更有理由担心我们受制于一个超出人类设计或控制的失控资本主义系统的自主和贪婪的逻辑。

The World State is an intensively planned society, one that can be directly presented in propositions and is integrated by a unified human vision. Much of Brave New World consists of expositional dialogue, within which the human ideology undergirding the World State is explicitly articulated. However, the social developments that most powerfully shape our world no longer seem to be planned and definitely don’t present themselves to us directly. Rather, they’re more typically technological and societal dynamics we set in motion, whose long-term destination is unclear and whose incremental effects on us, though vast in the aggregate and in retrospect, are only perceived obliquely in the moment and the particular—when they’re perceived at all. Though we may be unwittingly conditioned, the conditioner is more likely a technology such as the internet than a human intelligence.

世界国家是一个密集型的计划社会，一个可以直接以命题形式呈现的社会，并由一个统一的人类愿景整合。勇敢的新世界》的大部分内容都是论述性对话，其中明确阐述了支撑世界国家的人类意识形态。然而，最有力地塑造我们世界的社会发展似乎不再是有计划的，而且肯定不会直接呈现给我们。相反，它们更典型的是我们设定的技术和社会动态，其长期目的地并不明确，其对我们的渐进影响，尽管在总体上和回顾中是巨大的，但只是在当下和特定的情况下被间接地感知到--如果它们被感知到的话。尽管我们可能在不知不觉中被调教，但调教者更可能是一种技术，比如互联网，而不是人类的智慧。

Dominated by Desire

In the contemporary age, we have more to fear from uncontrollable and inexorable inhuman processes we’ve set in motion, which unfold themselves in society with a demoralizing inevitability. Our world is at the mercy of the twin forces of totalizing capitalism and advancing technology. While the latter extends the scope of what is possible, the former pushes to increase levels of consumption and our unconstrained capacity and urge to do so, overwhelming all obstacles that might curtail them. While human beings are the foot soldiers of these forces, the driving logic of the forces themselves towers over them.

被欲望所支配

在当代，我们更应该害怕我们设定的不可控制和不可抗拒的非人类进程，这些进程在社会中以一种令人沮丧的不可避免性展开自己。我们的世界受制于资本主义全面化和技术进步的双重力量。后者扩大了可能的范围，而前者则推动了消费水平的提高，以及我们不受约束的能力和冲动，压倒了所有可能限制它们的障碍。虽然人类是这些力量的步兵，但这些力量本身的驱动逻辑却高过他们。

This is a key point where Brave New World’s vision resonates. Huxley perceived, better than most, the degrading bondage into which we can be brought by our desire for pleasure. Neil Postman famously contrasted Huxley’s work with Orwell’s 1984, observing Huxley’s recognition that we may be more readily destroyed and dominated through our desires than our fears. Anesthetized by pleasures, entertainments, trivialities, distractions, lusts, and sensuality, we can be inured to the steady erosion of our humanity.

这是《勇敢的新世界》愿景产生共鸣的一个关键点。赫胥黎比大多数人更清楚地认识到，我们对快乐的渴望会使我们陷入有辱人格的束缚。尼尔-波兹曼（Neil Postman）曾将赫胥黎的作品与奥威尔的《1984》进行了著名的对比，他观察到赫胥黎认识到，我们可能更容易被我们的欲望而不是恐惧所摧毁和支配。在快乐、娱乐、琐事、分心、欲望和感官的麻醉下，我们可能会对我们的人性被不断侵蚀而感到麻木。

Huxley perceived, better than most, the degrading bondage into which we can be brought by our desire for pleasure. . . . We may be more readily destroyed and dominated through our desires than our fears. 

赫胥黎比大多数人更清楚地认识到，我们对快乐的渴望会使我们陷入有辱人格的束缚。. . . 与恐惧相比，我们可能更容易被我们的欲望所摧毁和支配。

In the contemporary world, as Slavoj Žižek has observed, we are subject to a soft totalitarianism that continually charges us to “enjoy!” The market has surrounded us with products and advertising that have been weaponized to excite and mobilize our desire to consume and to break down any resistance we might put up against it. In our oversaturated hyper-real world, we’re exposed to a host of artificially created stimuli that far exceed anything we would’ve previously encountered naturally—from chemically engineered foods, to the dazzling graphics of computer games, to mind-altering drugs, to the vibrant images on our screens, to online pornography, to the carefully manicured tourist destination, to the airbrushed model on the magazine cover, to the sociality of a site like Facebook. All these things are calculated to excite our hunger, overcome our resistance, and drive us to indulge. Capitalism’s wave of intoxicating pleasures overwhelms all obstacles before it—censorship, legal restriction, cultural taboo, social norm, religious virtue, self-control.

在当代世界，正如斯拉沃伊-日泽克（Slavoj Žižek）所观察到的，我们受制于一种软性的极权主义，它不断地要求我们 "享受！" 市场已经用产品和广告包围了我们，这些产品和广告已经被武器化，以激发和调动我们的消费欲望，并瓦解我们可能对其进行的任何抵抗。在我们这个过度饱和的超现实世界里，我们接触到大量人工创造的刺激，这些刺激远远超过我们以前自然遇到的任何东西--从化学工程食品，到电脑游戏的炫目图形，到改变心智的药物，到我们屏幕上充满活力的图像，到在线色情，到精心修剪的旅游目的地，到杂志封面上的气质模特，到像Facebook这样的网站的社交。所有这些东西都是为了激发我们的饥饿感，克服我们的抵抗力，并促使我们放纵。资本主义令人陶醉的快乐浪潮压倒了它面前的所有障碍--审查制度、法律限制、文化禁忌、社会规范、宗教美德、自我控制。

Edmund Burke argued that controls and restraints on human appetites are essential to human freedom, and one of our fundamental rights. Without such controls we can be reduced to infantile prisoners of pleasure, incapable of governing ourselves. A tragic example is the immense damage being caused by pornography, its power to overcome people increased by new technologies and the force of the market, making it both more enticing to consume and more difficult to oppose. And while a society fixated on popular mass entertainment and sports was on the rise in Huxley’s day, the scale of our own societal obsession with these things—and our relatively unquestioning consumption of pop culture as Christians—is arguably without precedent and is worthy of genuine alarm.

埃德蒙-柏克认为，对人类食欲的控制和约束是人类自由的关键，也是我们的基本权利之一。没有这样的控制，我们会沦为幼稚的快乐囚犯，没有能力管理自己。一个悲惨的例子是色情制品所造成的巨大损害，它征服人们的力量因新技术和市场的力量而增加，使它既更加诱人消费，又更加难以反对。虽然在赫胥黎的时代，一个沉迷于大众娱乐和体育的社会正在崛起，但我们自己的社会对这些东西的痴迷程度--以及我们作为基督徒对流行文化相对不加怀疑的消费--可以说是没有先例的，值得真正警惕。

Dehumanized Subjects 
Huxley further recognized the danger of human nature being subjected to the logic of production. Perhaps the most central reality of the World State is the replacement of sexual procreation by technical production: Humans cease to be begotten and start to be made. Huxley astutely perceives just how crucial this shift is and draws our attention to its various aspects in great detail: a culture of purely contraceptive sex and relative gender neutrality, the formation of children through conveyor belt-like processes, the elimination of the family and the bonds of love into which children are naturally welcomed, and so on.

非人化的主体 
赫胥黎进一步认识到人性被置于生产逻辑之下的危险。也许世界国家最核心的现实是以技术生产取代了性生殖。人类不再是被生出来的，而是开始被制造出来的。赫胥黎敏锐地察觉到这一转变是多么关键，并提请我们注意其各方面的细节：纯粹的避孕性行为和相对的性别中立的文化，通过类似传送带的过程形成儿童，消除家庭和儿童自然欢迎的爱情纽带，等等。

Perhaps the most central reality of the World State is the replacement of sexual procreation by technical production: Humans cease to be begotten and start to be made.

也许世界国家最核心的现实是以技术生产取代性生殖。人类不再是被生出来的，而是开始被制造出来的。
 
Again, this aspect of Huxley’s work finds troubling resonance within our contemporary world. Through such things as the ideology of abortion, advances in reproductive technology, and the normalization of gender-neutral marriage, children are increasingly rendered subject to the logic of choice and construction. Human dignity itself rests in no small measure on the fact that we are not made but begotten—conceived through a loving gift of bodies that precedes and exceeds political, legal, economic, and technological realms of human activity. A culture that resists or neglects this truth, as ours is prone to do, risks changing its very understanding and treatment of humanity itself.

同样，赫胥黎作品的这一方面在我们的当代世界中找到了令人不安的共鸣。通过诸如堕胎的意识形态、生殖技术的进步以及性别中立的婚姻的正常化，儿童越来越受制于选择和建设的逻辑。人类尊严本身在很大程度上依赖于这样一个事实，即我们不是被制造出来的，而是被生出来的--通过一个爱的身体的礼物，先于并超越了人类活动的政治、法律、经济和技术领域。一个抵制或忽视这一事实的文化，就像我们容易做的那样，有可能改变它对人类本身的理解和对待。

Human dignity itself rests in no small measure on the fact that we are not made but begotten. . . . A culture that resists or neglects this truth, as ours is prone to do, risks changing its very understanding and treatment of humanity itself.

人类的尊严本身在很大程度上依赖于这样一个事实：我们不是被造的，而是被生的。. . . 一个抵制或忽视这一事实的文化，就像我们的文化容易做的那样，有可能改变它对人类本身的理解和对待。

Fighting for Freedom 
As Christians in the 21st century, we’re facing a growing and profoundly daunting struggle for human nature and dignity. We must fight against the subjugation of humanity to the tyranny of pleasure, against the amniotic sensuality in which our culture would cocoon us, dulling us to any reality that might elevate our nature by calling us forth in duty, love, or worship. We must resist the allure of technical mastery over our nature—a mastery that risks our dehumanization. And in order to do these things, we must recognize and overcome the treachery that exists in each of our hearts, which would overthrow us from within. Facing these accelerating developments, Huxley’s Brave New World has never been so contemporary, nor the warning it sounds so urgent.

为自由而战 
作为21世纪的基督徒，我们正面临着一场为人性和尊严而进行的日益激烈和深刻的斗争。我们必须反对人类屈服于快乐的暴政，反对我们的文化将我们包裹在羊水般的感性之中，使我们对任何可能通过呼唤我们的责任、爱或崇拜来提升我们的本性的现实感到迟钝。我们必须抵制对我们本性的技术掌握的诱惑--这种掌握有可能使我们丧失人性。为了做这些事情，我们必须认识并克服存在于我们每个人心中的背叛，它将从内部推翻我们。面对这些加速的发展，赫胥黎的《勇敢的新世界》从未如此具有时代性，它所发出的警告也从未如此紧迫。

Against these things we must reassert the importance of moral self-mastery, of the relation between man and woman and the bestowal of life that can be occasioned by their love, of moral boundaries restricting the reach of the market and development of technology, and of the Lord and Giver of life to whom we are all beholden. If we fail to do so, we risk subjection to a bondage more insidious than any the world has seen.

面对这些事情，我们必须重申道德自我管理的重要性，重申男人和女人之间的关系以及他们的爱所带来的生命的赐予，重申限制市场和技术发展的道德界限，以及重申我们都要服从的主和生命的赐予者。如果我们不这样做，我们就有可能受制于一种比世界上任何事物都更阴险的束缚。

Alastair Roberts (PhD, Durham University in England) works for both the Theopolis Institute the Davenant Institute. He participates in the Mere Fidelity and Theopolis podcasts, blogs at Alastair’s Adversaria, and tweets at @zugzwanged.

阿拉斯泰尔-罗伯茨（英国达勒姆大学博士）在Theopolis研究所和Davenant研究所工作。他参加了Mere Fidelity和Theopolis的播客，在Alastair's Adversaria写博客，并在推特上发帖@zugzwanged。