
#编剧故事营

I can take you through it step by step explain  why your story stinks, but I won't insult your intelligence well alright. First of all. Really? We're still never saw. Well my Next One will be better. Hello. I hated this movie hated hated hated hated hated this movie hated it hated every simpering stupid bacon audience. It's all the moment of it.

So there's an online from Mark Twain, where he says that everybody complaints about the weather, but no one ever does anything about it and that's kind of how I feel about screenplays. Hey everybody, my name is Michael Arnhem Screen Reader I wrote Little Miss Sunshine in a couple of other movies. Ann I put this video together. cause when I first started out trying to write screenplays. I just don't know what the hell. I was doing and I kind of stumbled around the dark for years and years and I just made every possible mistake, you could make. As a screenwriter, so I want to make this video and just put as much as I know bout storytelling into it and my hope is that if you love movies and you're just starting out trying to write screenplays. Maybe some of these ideas will be helpful.

Now I just want to say quickly. A disclaimer because I know that I'm going to get roasted alive by people who are saying. Oh, he's trying to turn story into a formula and he's trying to say that stories can only be one thing and that's not what I'm saying I'm going to say this 3 times, which is. I'm not saying This is the only way to tell stories. I'm not saying This is the only way to tell stories. I'm not saying This is the only way to tell stories you can tell a story anyway. You want there's any kind of way of telling stories what I'm doing here with this video is I'm taking 3 movies. Star Wars, the graduate in Little Miss sunshine and I'm just analyzing how they work. I'm just trying to show what the narrative mechanics are going on underneath them, so I'm describing how they work OK. I'm not prescribing. I'm not saying that stories have to be like this, I'm only saying. Here's 3 films. Here's how they work so again. The disclaimer is I'm not saying that films have to work this way or stories have to work this way stories can work anyway. You want you can write any kind of ending you want. This is just one specific kind of ending. That I used in my own film Little Miss sunshine. So just a quick back story, which is when I got to film school. I want to be screenwriter and I got a job reading screenplays. And so I read. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of screenplays and what I found was that a lot of them could set up very well and usually your first act was sort of entertaining and sort of engaging. And a lot of scripts could get to the second act and we're still working. But most of the time scripts tended to fail in the third act and I kind of saw over and over again. I saw stories sort of just fall apart at the end. Either they felt sort of mechanical and predictable or a lot of times. The ending work there was a sort of So what factor you go like OK, the hero got the pretty girl. And he got the bag of money, but like So what who cares you know where the girls. She got the handsome guy, and she got the dream job So what and so I was trying to write screenplays Ann. I was just obsessed with endings and going like why do these endings not work and I was trying to like figure out how to make endings really works when I was just starting out.

I remember reading a book that said that in order to analyze the story? What you had to do is you have to breakdown the steaks in the story. And it said there was 2 sets of states, there is the External Stakes. What was going to be gained or loss in the outside world and then there was an internal set of stakes. There was sort of an emotional set of Steaks. And so that was my guide for a long, long time, but I finally decided that there was.

One additional set of states that people weren't really paying attention to where people really weren't talking about which was a philosophical set of Steaks in a story and kind of at the same time. I got obsessed with the ending of Star Wars like the ending of Star Wars is so crazy and weird and mysterious like Luke is sitting there. This little X wing fighter and he's trying to blow up the death star and sort of out of nowhere. All of a sudden like Obi Wan Kenobi's voice sort of comes back and starts talking to him and he pushes aside his computer starting screen is really weird thing like I remember going like why? What is Obi Wan doing? There, in Luke's cockpit like when he's trying to you know fucking defeat the Empire. So I finally just sat down and I mapped out what was going on at the ending of Star Wars and it gave me all these ideas about sort of your external stakes your internal steaks in your philosophical Steaks. And that was very helpful to me in terms of writing out Little Miss Sunshine in especially sort of engineering.

The ending of that movie and again. I'm just going to say that I'm going to resist the notion that I'm just applying a one size fits all formula to storytelling OK. That's not what I'm doing. Again stories can be anything you want.

All I'm really trying to do with this video is to give people a vocabulary to talk about stories and storytelling to give people tools. They had the saying at Pixar. It's tools, not rules. You know this is not a set of rules. This is not even a set of guidelines. This is just again trying to put out a vocabulary in which people can.

Think about talk about and then hopefully right out great stories O. Here's a lecture is called endings. The good, the bad and the insanely grade the cliches that movies are all about last 10 minutes. But the argument that I'm going to make is really that movies are all about the climactic. 2 minutes of the movie and that's because the climactic 2 minutes are the place where the meaning of your movie is revealed when you're talking bout, meaning you're talking bout.

The values that are embedded in your story. So when you talk about values. You're talking about guides to life. How you live your life? What you think is worth living for what you think is worth doing what you think is not worth doing. So, in a weird way stories are really sort of guides to how you live your life. If stories are about competing values. Then there about competing visions of how you should really live your life and I think we've all had the experience of going to see a movie and just going like walking out of it. Walking out of the ending Oh my God. The ending was so great, you know, and you have this sense of euphoria and release in the sense of clarity and you feel like you're looking at the world with new eyes and you actually think that you know when you walked in your thought life was pretty terrible, but actually it seems like.

Right now, it seems that life is actually pretty great, so I think we all have our personal list of movies that we love, especially endings that we love the endings. I really love. Our Fellini's 8 and a half Star Wars also catch 22. The graduate and of course, the bad news bears.

Hey Yankees.

You can take your apology idea trophy and shove it straight up your ass so we are not abandoning is right about ending is we've seen him again times one that's positive but it's predictable you know what's going to happen. And it happened, and a good ending is one that's positive but it's surprising. You wanted, something happen, but you weren't sure how it's going to happen, but then boom. It turned out and you're super happy you know that it turned out as well as it did now for an insanely great ending I think The thing is that you wanted to be both surprising and positive but the most important thing is that you want your ending to be meaningful. And I think that that's the thing that a lot of stories fall down on they don't have the ending be as meaningful as they could be this is the thing that's going to set your ending apart from every other ending out there is that it's not just going to be positive. It's not just going to be surprising. It's going to be super meaningful to your audience. So the question is how do you put meaning into your story? How do you make your story meaningful to the people who are sitting there watching it, so we talk about meaning you're talking bout.

The values that are embedded in your story and usually in a story. You don't just have one set of values you have 2 sets of values you could call them. Values, A or values B but the way I prefer to think of it is a lot of times you have a dominant set of values and your story. These sort of pervasive ubiquitous values in your story and then you have an underdog set of values which is sort of a scrappy band of Misfits set of values and what you want to do is you want to have the dominant values. Of your story on the verge of defeating those underdog values. You want a sudden reversal to happen. And then have the underdog values prevail over the dominant values of your story and that sudden reversal is overturning the moral order of the universe that you've created in your story in that sun reversal of al. Becomes the meaning of your story. There's something wrong. Mckee says I don't agree with him on everything. But he says something really smart, which is the more meaning that you can put into your story. The more emotional, it will be and I really, really believe that especially for the ending so. The more meaningful emotion, you can have there at the end of your story more insanely great.

It's going to be OK. So I'm going to talk about Star Wars and I want to show the final climactic 2 minutes. What's important to remember is that when this movie came out. You know, we look back on it now, it's almost a 40 year old movie and it seems like it's very. Predictable like it seems almost quaint in certain ways, but boy when this movie came out. The ending works so well. People went bezerk, further, sending there was a Consumer Reports at the time of. They were saying, like when Han Solo came in like bodies were flying through the theater at the Premier because people just went so crazy. For this ending so however, Queen it may look to us now. You have to admit that this is an ending that worked it worked for the audiences at the time and I will argue I think it still works. So here we going to play the climactic 2 minutes of Star Wars and I'm going to go back sort of open up the hood. Dick down and see what the mechanics. Underneath the hood of this ending R so here's the climactic 2 minutes of Star Wars.

Use the force Luke. Let go. The force is strong with this one. Trust me.

Computer you switched off your targeting computer what's wrong nothing I'm alright.

Doctor Jill.

Rebel base in rain. You may fire when ready. Command is primary ignition.

Have you not? What? Lookout.

You're all clear kid now let's go home.

Reply.

Great shot kid that was one in a million. Remember. Force will be with you always.

Ok so the question is how does it work? What is going on at the ending of this movie an in order to figure out? What's going on almost in any story. You know a lot of times you get a screenplay and it's this sort of big salads. This big Spaghetti Bowl of character and plot an incident and you're trying to figure out what's working in this story was not working and I always feel like the most important thing to do.

To go back to figure out how to make a story work is to ask the question. What is at stake in the story so we all know what stakes are steaks? Aren't like? What can be gained or lost in the important thing is it has to be a binary thing. It has to be a pass fail thing. It has to be black and white you're either going to gain something. Are you going to lose something when you're talking about the sticks of a story so the main argument that I'm going to make is that usually in a good story. You don't just have one set of Steaks usually. My eyes, you have 3 sets of Steaks in your story. If you don't remember anything else from this video try to remember this that every good story should have 3 sets of Steaks in it.

In terms of external steaks like we're all familiar with this your external sticks are usually something like life and survival or if you're trying to get a bag of money, you're robbing the bank and trying to get the money. Sometimes it's winning a contest. Sometimes it's achieving any kind of like sort of position or status. Any sort of achievable goal any sort of pass fail thing anything that's sort of out there in the outside world. Those are the external sticks of your story. Now, for the internal sticks your story.

The emotional stakes. There story, a lot of times it's romantic. Love you. Follow it love with someone you're hoping that they're going to reciprocate their love. Or, a lot of times it's a parent child. Love you know in finding Nemo for example, you know, Marlon loses the love of Nemo and he's trying to win his child.

Love and respect back. Sometimes the movies like it can be friendship. You know a friendship can be can be gained or Lossed and that's what you put. Emotionally at steak and a lot of times it self respect. I mean, it's really interesting that for example, in the first rocky film. He sort of out there training but he considers himself kind of a bomb in the neighborhood. He's training. But he smoking cigarettes and he doesn't really even respect himself and just the act. He doesn't win the championship right. But he goes 15 rounds with Apollo Creed and in doing so, he gains his own self respect, so the philosophical sticks your story.

A lot of times in movies? What's at stake philosophically is you're privileging the values of community. Over the individual and you see this in films like Casablanca, or Star Wars, where the hero chooses. The values of community over the values of narrow self interest. Conversely, a lot of times the movie. You are having for example, in catch 22 or the graduate you're privileging the values of individualism. Over the stifling conformity of the community and then for some Little Miss sunshine. I always saw just the philosophical steaks were do you live? Are like trying to be an ideal? Do you live your life trying to be like Barbie you know to win a beauty contest or you deliver like trying to be yourself, so 3 sets of Steaks External. Internal in philosophical and what I'm going to argue is that most movies right have an external set of Steaks. Every movie James Bond, you're trying to save the world or you're trying to Rob a bank you're trying to win the Heavyweight Championship of the world. You're just trying to do something so almost every movie has an external set of state. Most movies have an internal set of steak so something emotional going on the place where a lot of films fall down or a lot of films get muddy or a lot of films become suboptimal is in the philosophical stakes of story lot of stories are not as clear articulate as it could be. In terms of what the underlying set of values in their stories are and creating a drama out of 2 competing value systems that are embedded in those stories OK, so before we go any further. I just want to giant step backwards and look at the big picture of storytelling so let's say you have 100 movie. And that translates into a 100 page screenplay and so we're all familiar with the general outlines of a story arc right so you start off your movie and you have your exposition and that's the moment in which you're establishing the stakes of your story your stablishing? What's going to be gained or lost. But the important thing is your stablishing not just what's? Externally it's taking your story you're also establishing the internal states of your story. The emotional stakes. Your story and you're also establishing what's philosophically at stake in your story? What's going to be gained or loss, philosophically and then as you move through the second after your story. You're going to add complications to your store you're going to put those steaks. Into Jeopardy external internal and philosophical so then you get to crisis where you're forcing this takes your story. You get your climax and then you get your resolution in which you're resolving this takes your story external internal in philosophical all it's hopefully at the same time.

I'm going to make the argument that there's actually an organic logic to storytelling. There's an organic logic to narrative and it goes back to the vocabulary that we're all familiar with in terms of fairy tales. You know Once Upon a time or live happily ever after so with the typical fairy tale, you know you begin your movie. Once Upon a time and you get The Who what where when of your story and you also have what you're doing is you're saying and then every day. You're establishing the daily routine of your hero plus usually you're introducing some kind of unresolved issue is either an internal. Unreal. Issue inside them or as an external unresolved issue.

At some problem that there is with the world. So you're going. Once Upon a time. Your heroes walking down the road of life. It's a bright, sunny day. You know there's a few clouds on the horizon and then you go, but then one day boom something comes along and it. Totally disrupt your heroes life, it turns your heroes life upside down and it changes our sense of who they are changed their sense of what the world is like and it also changes their sense of the future, and in the wake of that, Bolt from the blue your hero embarks upon request.

Ann usually what you're doing is that they have a long range goal. They're trying to achieve. And they have a short term plan to achieve that goal, so for example, with Dorothy. You know, she wants to get home to Kansas and to get home to Kansas. You gotta go see the wizard to see the wizard. She's gotta follow the yellow brick road. So then you get to usually a moment in which suddenly without warning something happens. You know that pulls the rug out from under your character and they have a set back at the middle of the story and they have to sort of take stock look inside themselves an figure out a new way forward. And then there's always a moment in a story in a fairy tale where you go and then there was no going back. You know you have to enter the Dragon's cave. You have to slay the dragon or whatever, but there's no going back. You can't go back to safety anymore and then you have your climax where your hero either. Achieve his goal or fails to achieve his goal.

But for example, Once Upon a time. There was a Prince who lived in a Castle in Denmark and every day, he mourn the untimely death of his father. The King and the sudden marriage of his mother, Queen to his sleazy uncle, the King's brother. And then you say, and then one day the ghost of the dead. King appeared to the Prince and claimed he was murdered by his brother and demanded that the Prince avenge his untimely death. So you're here dealers and others and then you go. Then the hero embarked on a quest and the heroes quest was to find out if his uncle was guilty. By staging a play reenacting the murder and then if his uncle was guilty to avenge his father's death by killing his sleazy uncle. However, suddenly without warning the Prince having discovered his uncle was guilty actually kills around Diane get sent into exile by his uncle. And then the Prince returns you get challenged to a duel and there was no going back and then you have our climax where everybody gets killed so that's the story of Hamlet right and you can say you know, Shakespeare is a hack and he was just following a formula, but my argument would be that he was actually following the organic logic of story, The Once Upon a time. But then one day you know the hero embarking upon request and so in script speak. We talk about the Once Upon a time moments. There's a different word for them. The Once Upon a time is the opening of your story and then one day moment is the inciting incident of your story when you're here embarks on a quest that's the first outbreak of your story. Suddenly, without warning that the midpoint of your story and then there was no going back that's the second outbreak of your story and then of course, by boom. There's your climax at the end of your story and these moments here story tend to correspond with a certain page number, so for example, page. One is your opening of course. Around page 10, you have your inciting incident page 25, is your first break 50 is a mid point 75 years.

Second break and your climax. Of course comes 10 minutes from the end on page 90, and I would call these the tent pole moments of story, telling a lot of times people ask me to read their screen. Ways and I feel like if you can just tell me what these 6 moments are if you can. Tell me what the 6 tent pole moments of your story are I can tell you whether or not. You've got a good story or not so when I'm working on a story.

I like to think of these moments in visual terms, so with the opening I always imagined. Is sort of tanking up you're just getting as much emotional rocket fuel as you can right at the beginning of your story and then when the inciting incident comes along that sort of lighting a fuse used the status quo of your story is shattered and a fuse is lit you know that's heading towards that emotional rocket fuel. You get to your first break and boom. That's the blast off you have sort of maximum rooting interest in your story. You want to see your hero sort of take off and either externally or internally go on this question achieve a goal.

Then in terms of the midpoint the image always having my head is that the rug is getting pulled out from under your hero. You know, he's headed towards this goal. He's got his eye on it, and suddenly whoa. The rug gets pulled out from under him and he's sort of like has to pick up. Off up dust himself off and find a new way towards that goal.

With the second act break. I know this is kind of complicated. But the image. I have my head is that you're here is headed towards this goal. It seems like it's almost within his grasp and then suddenly a trap door opens and you hear all falls down and suddenly he's in a canoe. Sort of headed down a River towards a waterfall and he is either going to like get to safety get to the edge of the River and save himself or is going to go over the waterfall and get himself killed but you fall through a trapdoor and you get into a do or die all or nothing situation. Here's the Story 3 acts usually on page. One you're opening up on a world that sort of in equilibrium. You know, there might be a few flaws in it, there might be a few problems. But basically the world is steady and equilibrium. Then you meet your hero and a lot of times your heroes. La Tour the world itself is flawed, but your hero has a stable sense of himself. He has a stable sense of what the world is an has a fixed sense of what his future is going to be usually you want to have you here or have a very clear visual sense of? What their future is going to be? And then on page 10 boom. You have your Bolt from the blue and your heroes future changes. It changes his sense of himself. It also changes his sense of the world lot of times it's the worst possible thing for the hero like whatever is most valuable for the hero. That's the thing that gets taken away from them. Sort of in the inciting incident and a lot of times you're adding insult to injury moment in order to put in more emotional rocket fuel into your story and what you're doing. These having incident is you're creating a global problem in your story you're creating a problem. That your hero has to solve and that's the problem. That's going to get solved at the climax serious story on page 90, so with Little Miss sunshine.

For example, on page 10, Aunt Cindy calls and you know boom. Olive has a place in Little Miss Sunshine Contest. Call. You know when she so excited and and she can't wait and that's tying into the climax. Your story is you know the question is, is she going to win the Little Miss Sunshine Contest or not so then in the wake of the inciting incident. A lot of times you hear it doesn't know what to do. You know they sort of casting around there trying to figure out what to do and they find a course of action and they seized up on that and then you get your first act break. You've lit the fuse. It's connected with your emotional rocket fuel and you're taking off into your second act and so your second act you're creating. A smaller goal you're creating a local goal. You know that's going to lead to a solution to the global goal so for example, in Sunshine Olive wants to win the Little Miss Sunshine Pageant. But first I've gotta get to Redondo Beach in California or for example, in Star Wars, Luke wants to save the rebellion. But in order to do that, he's gotta take R 2 D 2 and deliver the plans inside R 22. Princess Leia's father on all their so boom your second act begins with your hero having a goal an embarking on a quest and so your hero is going through the story and he gets to the midpoint and suddenly usually there's a set back. Or some kind of reversal or your story changes directions and a lot of time. What you're doing is deepening the steaks or your story and you're revealing stuff that had previously been hidden in the story. A lot of times what you're doing also is you're having to force your character to look within. And see a flaw inside themselves that they have been blind to before that time, OK, so here's your third act, you get paid 75 and your hero is achieving the second goal but sort of inadvertently, forcing this takes for your global goal and then what happens. From your second break to your climax usually it's just nothing but things going wrong for hero. You have external setbacks. You have internal or emotional setbacks. But you also have philosophical setbacks for a story and a lot of times I called this.

The Judas moment of betrayal. Which is your hero's closest ally of the person that you're hero feels like he can count on the most is the person that betrays them philosophically and chooses the dominant values of the story, so that's again.

The sort of Judas Moment. The story will get into a few examples of that, so they get paid. 89. An I like to call this moment, the kamikaze moment of commitment because a lot of times. Your hero is headed into the sort of killer be killed moment with their bad guy or whoever and the voice at that moment. The voice of the mentor comes back to them and it's something that only the hero can hear any sort of whispering into the heroes ear. And remember those under the values that we talked about back in the first act. You know live your life, according to those values and so the hero chooses the underdog values usually against their own self interest and you want. Everyone else in the movie to go Oh my God? What are you doing? That's crazy and then you get to amount of despair in which it seems as though you hear his failed externally failed internally. Fail philosophically an if you stop the movie at that moment. It seems like there's no positive outcome possible so then you get here.

Decisive act in your defensive act is positive right. It's surprising and it's meaningful and it's meaningful because and this is crucial the decisive act. Speaks to an is an embodiment of the underdog values of your story. So, your hero doesn't have to get up at the climax of your story and give a big speech right? That's just bad writing the underdog values are embedded in the decisive act itself and that's something that. Again, it's going to turbocharge the emotion at the end of your story and give your story. An insanely great ending OK. So how do all these ideas work in an actual movie right? Let's take a look at Star Wars?

Ok, so Star Wars now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go through the movie and trying to explain what's at stake. Externally, what's at stake internally and what's at stake. Philosophically, OK, so X ternal steaks, so you're introducing the external sticks of the story in the inciting incident. The story and you're introducing sort of the global problem that Luke is going to have to try and solve at the climax of the story. So here is the scene in Star Wars that introduces the external sticks of the story.

I have placed information vital to the survival of the rebellion into the memory systems of this R 2 unit my father will know how to retrieve it.

You must see this Droid. Safely delivered to him on Alderaan was so survival rebellion. That's what's externally. It's taken Star Wars. The rebellion is either going to prosper and survive or it's going to be wiped out completely now.

A lot of things that you do in your story when you were trying to introduce. Post office takes your story is that you have the bad guy, your int agonists come in and he sort of says that here kid. Let me tell you the way the world works and he lays out the dominant set of values for this whole universe. An I'd like to call this.

The Antagonist area. So here's the antagonists Aria of Star Wars that happens right at the end of. Act one, it's Peter Cushing, telling you how the world works in Star Wars.

The rebellion will continue to gain support in the Imperial Senate. Longer be of any concern to us. I have just received word that the emperor has dissolved the council permanently the last remnants of the old Republic have been swept away. I will be implementing control that the bureaucracy regional governors now have direct control over their territories. Fear. Will keep the local systems in line?

Fear of this battlestation so fear Peter Cushing is saying we're going to rule through fear through Croatian. We're an empire and then you have the underdog values of the story and a lot of times what you're doing is just like you have the bad guy. The antagonist come in and say here's the way I think the world works. They hear also meets a mentor and the mentor is the one who speaks the underdog values of the story and the mental will give a speech to say kid you know, I know everybody else thinks this, but really things are like this. So here is the mentor speech in Star Wars.

You must learn the ways of the force if you want to come with me to Alderaan. Duran. I'm not going to Alderaan I've gotta get home it's late on import as it is. I need your help flu she needs your help. I'm getting too old for this sort of thing. I can't get involved, I've got work to do. It's not that I like the empire, I hated but there's nothing I can do about it right now. Such a long way from here that show uncle talking so Obi.

Wan is saying, I need your help, she needs your help. He's saying that the way we should get along in the world is not through Empire is not through domination is not through fear. But it's true democracy through cooperation through helping each other so I'll get this right. It's the Empire versus Republic is fear versus the consent of the governed its violence versus cooperation. It's tyranny versus Freedom is basically good guys versus bad guys and that's all set up in the first act of the story. Now, what you're also doing is you're not just establishing what philosophic stake in the global world. But you're also establishing what's philosophical stake in the personal realm. So here is a speech in Star Wars in which Alec Guinness playing Obi? Wan talks to Luke about what the underdog values of the story are. Personally.

The force. The force is what gives a Jedi's path. It's an energy field created by all living things, it surrounds us and penetrates as it binds the Galaxy together.

What Obi Wan is saying here is that we are all connected to each other all United. You know the force is something that. All Unites us all, so here is the philosophical attacks of Star Wars, telling look the way the world works through his eyes.

Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side kid. You don't believe in the force do you?

Kid I've flown from one side of this Galaxy to the other. I seen a lot of strange stuff, but a nursing anything to make me believe there's 1 all powerful force, controlling everything there's no mystical energy field controls my destiny.

It's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense So what harnessing here is there is no force.

There's no commonality were not connected to each other all alone in this universe zero in the drama of the philosophical sticks your story. You're setting the dominant values at the beginning and act one with the antagonists area in which he says to your hero like here is the way the world works and then what happens usually in Act 3 is you have your heroes closest ally come to him and philosophically betray your hero. Again, what I called the Judas moment of betrayal because the heroes ally, is going to choose the dominant values of the universe and reject the underdog values of the universe and then for the underdog values. You have your mentor give a speech in Act one and say kid. There's another way to see the world is another way of living your life and then you get to act 3 and you'll have the mental return the mentor is going to come back and whisper in the ear of your hero and remind him of the underdog values that they talked about in the first act of the story.

Use the force Luke. Let go. The force is strong with this one look trust me.

This computer is switched off your targeting computer what's wrong nothing I'm alright.

So that's philosophically it's taking Star Wars is this notion of are we connected to each other. You know, do we share this sort of universal kinship or are? We all just disconnected and it's every man for himself. And that leads out to a larger set of values right? Do we choose to live our lives, according to the ideas the tenets of altruism? Community and selflessness or do we pursue a path of sort of self interest individuals and selfishness. So here's a philosophical sticks of Star Wars right on the global level. It's about empire and dominance versus democracy in cooperation on a personal level. It's sort of about greed and selfishness versus duty and altruism.

Now let's go to the internal stake. So Star Wars? What's emotionally at stake at Star Wars with Star Wars. It was a little tricky, and I had to go back and watch the film couple times. cause I was thinking. Well, is it a romance with Princess Leia, but obviously that's not really going to be it. And then I was also thinking well. Maybe you know, Luke is trying to find a father figure in Obi Wan. Maybe that's what he's searching for but then you know, Obi Wan gets killed sort of at the end of the second act and so I couldn't figure out sort of what the emotional stakes of Star Wars were an I had to go back and watch a movie. A couple of times and I finally found a moment where I felt like it's sort of like brought everything to ahead. So here is the scene in which you're setting was internally? What's emotionally at stake in Star Wars.

The only concern is to prepare those new droids for tomorrow. Good morning. I want them up there on the South Ridge, working on those condensers. I think those neutrals are gonna workout fine. Fact I am. Also, thinking about our agreement about me staying on another season. And if these new droids do workout.

I want to transmit my application to the Academy this year. You mean the next semester before the harvest. Sure, there's more than enough droids. Harnish is when I need you the most only one season more. This year will make enough in the harvest that I'll be able to hire some more hands and then you can go to the Academy next year. Must understand I need you loop, but it's a whole mother year, but it's only one more season.

Where you going. I'm going nowhere to go finish cleaning those droids. Oh, and he can stay here, forever, most of his friends have gone it means so much to him. Make it up to him next. I promise. Looks just now to farmer own, he has too much of his father in him. That's what I'm afraid of.

You kind of expect him to start singing over the rainbow at that moment. You know looking at those 2 sons. But the argument. I'm going to make here is that what's emotionally. It's taking Star Wars is Luke sense of being called to a greater destiny. It's the call to greatness. And this is something I think we can all relate to write because we've all felt that way right. We all felt like we were just like a small town kid in a small town world in somewhere out there. There's something bigger, more exciting happening. There's like a greater destiny out there and the drama of our lives. Is like? Are we going to be able to go out there and reach it? Are we going to be able to go out and fill it like Are we even going to get a chance to go out there and see the world and have adventures and fulfill our full potential so just as you have an antagonist and a mentor in your external sticks, you, also have an antagonist elementor in your internal set of Steaks. So the bad guy, emotionally in Star Wars is actually Uncle Owen. He's the guy who's looking at Luke and saying. Hey don't get too big for bridges kid. You're just a small town kid in a small town world your only job is to make sure those condensers are working tomorrow. Don't get any big dreams. You're not that special, and then the opposite of that is Obi. Wan and he's the guy. The mentor who looks at you and says kid I see something special. You I think you have the seeds of greatness inside you OK, so 3 sets of states in Star Wars externally is the survival of the rebellion internally. It's looks called the greatness and philosophically is this question of do you live your life, according to values of selfishness or according to the values of altruism? And in each set of states you have a bad guy right so externally is Darth Vader, who's trying to crush the rebellion internally. It's uncle. Owen, who saying kid. You're not that special, and philosophically is going to be Han Solo, saying hey. It's smarter to be selfish and self interested. Then help anybody and what I'm going to do next is just talk about how each set of states has its own story arc to it, it has its own inciting incident. Its own first act break etc. So here's the Ark of the external stakes in Star Wars, which is you begin on page one. And on page 10, you have your inciting incident. You're establishing that survival of the rebellion is at stake on page 25. You're giving Luca goal, which is to deliver the plans that are inside R 2 D 2 right. Princess Leia's father on alderon.

Now, if you're a bad screen reader that will be the second for the rest of your story or just watching Luke try to get R 2 D 2 to Alderon, but Lucas to something super Super Smart here in terms of storytelling, which is he has a death star show up and just blow up all around right. So now you know that Luke and Obi Wan are heading towards a planet that doesn't exist anymore, so that's a great little thing to happen at the beginning of your second act right your hero has a plan. There heading towards that plan and then something comes along and disrupts that plan. So you get to page 50, an you know they come out of hyperspace and Oh my God. Alderon's gone and there's a tractor beam and they get sucked into the death star so that sort of this midpoint reversal this story. But then as soon as you get into the store right you have a new goal. You go Oh my God, she's here. She's here. We've got to go rescue. The Princess so you're sending the third quarter of the film going out finding the process and rescuing her and then you get to the second act and you rescue the Princess you escape from the death star and it seems like you've achieved your goals right. You've taken R 2 D 2. You don't go to alter on but you find Princess Leia's father, an you deliver the plan and so it seems as though you've achieved your second goal. However, this is the genius thing so at the same time you're delivering the plans to the death star 2.

Princess Leia's father and the rebels. You're inadvertently revealing the location of rebels. Basin that's forcing this takes your storage right because now the death star is on its way. Now the death star is coming. So now either the death star is going to survive or the rebels are going to survive, but they both can't survive at the same time. Get your climax you blew up the death star you save the rebellion and you have your ending now. You have a similar arc in the internal story of Star Wars, the emotional story. It begins on page. One and you already have Luke planning to leave the farm go off join the Space Academy. So the inciting incident is actually when he sits down with his aunt and uncle and asked to go to Space Academy and he gets turned down and now his future has changed and he feels diminished. Somehow, he feels like he's maybe. Not that special, however, just a few pages later right, he meets Obi Wan. Obi Wan leaves and goes you must learn the ways of the fourth and Obi. Wan is saying like I believe in you kid I think you got something special inside you so when you get to page 25 right.

The end of the first act uncle, Owen gets killed an now Luke is free to leave home and. Pursue his greater destiny. I want to come with you all the time.

There's nothing for me here now. I want to learn the ways of the force and become a Jedi like my father.

You get your midpoint and Obi Wan is training Luke to use the force right and when Luke is actually able to connect and use the force. He dodges that Droid and Obi Wan Tournament says you've taken your first step. Into a much larger world and what that's doing is affirming Luke sense that maybe he is special. Maybe he does have something inside him like maybe he is destined for greatness.

Somehow then on page 75 at the end of the Second Act. You have this enormous set back in the emotional stakes your story. Because Obi Wan gets killed by Darth Vader and you suddenly think Oh my God, maybe uncle, Owen was right. Obi Wan was just a crazy old man and then you get to your climax on page 90, and that's when Obi Wan returns any whispers in Lukes, Iran, he says remember trust your feelings use the force. So Luke is able to blow up the death star and over, one comes back and says remember. The force will be with you always and that's the resolution of the emotional stakes of Star Wars so there's a similar arc in the philosophical stakes of the story. You meet look on page. One and he sort of sympathetic the rebellion. But he's not doing anything about it, you sitting around and he says it's not like I'd like the Empire. I hate it but there's nothing I can do. And Unk alone is a guy who sort of stroking that at the same time you saying your only job is to prepare those new droids for tomorrow morning.

The inciting incident, then philosophically is meeting Obi Wan, an having Obi Wan say. I need your help, she needs your help. And Obi Wan is introducing this new set of possibilities that you can live your life, according to values of altruism so on page 25 uncle, Owen Daizan, now Luke sets off, he says. I'm committed to this underdog, set of values. I'm committed to helping Obi Wan. In trying to help Princess Leia now you get to the midpoint and you meet Han Solo and he's the philosophical antagonist of the story. He's a guy says I don't believe in the force. I don't believe in any sort of universal connection and he also says I take orders from one guy me so you're meeting a guy who doesn't believe in the values that Obi Wan have been preaching to look you meet a guy who sort of disdainful of those. Susan saying listen kid. That's not the way the world works at all, so now you get to pay 75 and again, you have this huge set back at the end of the second act.

Obi Wan dives and then a few pages later. Han Solo fleas rebel base and that's the Judas moment of betrayal that's the moment in which your heroes closest ally. Sort of turns his back on the hero turns his back on the good values of the story. The underdog values and chooses to embrace the dominant values of the story and then you have the climax of the story in which the mentor comes back any sort of whispers in the heroes Iran. He says remember those good values that we talked about remember our sense of connectedness remember helping people. Like you've got to commit to those values and then you have a moment, a few minutes later, where Han Solo comes back right and he embraces the values of teamwork. He embraces the values of duty and sacrifice and he shoots Darth Vader off Luke's tail and it's a combination of those, 2 things is a combination of Luke. Remembering what everyone said, and Han Solo coming back, embracing the values of altruism that allows Luke to finally shoot the bull's eye and blood. The death star and then you have your ending where the good values have prevailed over the bad values the underdog values are. Prevailed over the dominant values democracy, freedom connection altruism has all prevailed over empire violence and greed.

So I'm going to show you the second break reversal of Star Wars. It's one of the best second break reversals of all time, I think in the movies. It's a moment in which your hero has achieved a second at goal but now he's inadvertently, forcing the stakes of the global goal here at it.

We did it, we did it. Help I think I'm melting this is all your fault.

Are there way? They have just made the jump into hyperspace. You're sure the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship. Taking an awful risk later.

This had better work so you gotta be 75 and you escape from the death star. You know you take R 2 D 2. You take the plans and deliver it to the rebel base. You know, and it seems as though you've achieved your second goal. However, one page later. You gotta reveal that the location rebel base. Has inadvertently been revealed you know, and this is huge, huge set back in the external stakes of the story and then one page. Later Han Solo sort of fleas and says you know, I'm sticking around here and that's a huge set back in the philosophical sticks of the story and then even a few pages before that, you had. Obi Wan killed and that's the worst possible thing in terms of the internal states of the story, so for the third actor story. You're going from page 75, the second break to page 90 and what I do. You want there is to have nothing going right for her or you just want one thing after another going wrong.

In all 3 sets of Steaks externally internally and philosophically zero in Star Wars right you have Obi Wan gets killed right? That's a huge set back emotionally in the internal steaks. You have the death star located rebel base that's a huge set back externally in the XL Steaks, and you have council abandon look which is this big, big set back your Judas moment of betrayal in the philosophical sticks. Your story and then you have the rebel fighters take off and they all got killed by Darth Vader. And then you have R 2 D 2 get shot by Darth Vader and then you have the desktop clearing the planet and you have the rebel base targeted and they have Peter Cushing, saying commits Premier Ignition and then you have Darth Vader get onto look stale and he's chasing Luke and he's chasing look any finally locks on Luke. And that's when I called the moment to spare because we've just seen Darth Vader Kill. Everybody else that he locked onto like that. We've just seen Darth Vader. You know one by one pick off all of Luke's friends. All of Luke's allies and outdoor theaters chasing Luke. He locks on to him and he says, I have you now? And that's an external failure right because looks about get killed in the rebel base is about to be destroyed is an internal failure right because you're saying Uncle Owen was right like Luke is going to die. Just like his father. Did he will have failed to achieve any kind of great destiny. But you also have a philosophical theater at this moment because at this moment, it feels like console was right. You know, he was smart. So, just leave the rebel base and take off and be self. Interested and not try to help anybody else out. So it seems at this moment as a selfishness was smarter than altruism self interest is smarter than loyalty. Tyranny is going to triumph over democracy. Greed is better than self sacrificed violence is going to triumph over cooperation. So you have a total failure.

Lucas failed externally. He failed internally. He failed philosophically and at this moment, it seems like there's no positive outcome possible OK and this is really, really important. If you want to have a happy ending because you want your audience to feel as though your hero. Has earned their happy ending they need to have gone to the end of their ability and still falling short and the more you can convince your audience that there's no way out. The more that you convince your audience that everything is Lossed. The happier they're going to be when you're able to. Flip everything from failure to success and have a positive outcome, so how do you do that? How do you get from total failure to total success, it comes from the decisive act so the decisive action Star Wars is Han Solo returns an he shoots Darth Vader. And that's the thing that allows Luke to shoot his bullseye and blow up the death star. Have you not? What? Lookout what's crucial here again is that your decisive act is an enactment of the underdog values of the story.

You're all clear kid go home.

Here's when all comes together at the end. You have your moment of despair, Darth Vader locks on a Luke says I have. You now and then boom. Han Solo returns shoots Darth Vader off look stale that's overturning the philosophical? Take your story from negative to positive and because that happens. Luke is able to shoot a bullseye. He blows up the death star. You're overturning the external sticks your story from negative positive and because that happens. Obi Wan comes back and says remember the force will be with you always in your overturning the. Internal emotional states of the story from negative positive, it happens. In 42 seconds and that is an insanely great ending so let's go back and watch those last 2 minutes of Star Wars and we'll just play him through. But you'll see how each of these moments play out from the kamikaze moment of commitment. To the moment of despair until the decisive act, so here it is the 2 minute climaxes Star Wars.

Use the force Luke. Let go. The force is strong with this one. Trust me.

This computer is switched off your targeting computer. Nothing I'm alright.

Author Jill.

Rebel base in rain. You may fire when ready. Command is primary ignition.

Have you not? What? Lookout.

You're all clear kid now let's go home.

Bye.

That was one in a million. Remember. Force will be with you always OK.

So the general point here is that for an insanely great ending you don't have just one climax your story right. You have 3 climaxes external internal in philosophical and you want them all to be logically connected. In as close proximity to each other as possible, and also in ascending order of importance. Ideally, you want to go from total failure to total success in 45 seconds or less. And this is like the hardest thing in the world to do in terms of storytelling. But if you can convincingly pull it off. You got yourself, an insanely great ending OK so now the graduate.

Is? This resets the Steaks in the graduate external internal and philosophical So what excellently it's taking the graduate. It's not anything big like Star Wars. It's not the fate of the Galaxy or anything like that. It's something very small very intimate very tide to the hero Benjamin Braddock and Mike Nichols sets it up in this. Early scene at the beginning of the movie.

Hey, what's the matter. Guess we're all downstairs, then waiting to see you. Could you explain that I have to be alone for one? These are all good friends band. Most of them have known you since. Well practically since you were born. What is it then? And just. Worried. Well. At what? Just about my future. What about it? I don't know. I want it to be. To be one.

So it's the future that's what's a stake. Ben has a future and he just wants it to be different. So what are the internal states of the graduate? What is emotionally at stake in the story now obviously it's a love story? He meets Elaine Robinson, he falls in love, and there's this great scene in the middle of the movie where he talks. Elaine about how much he likes her so here is the scene that sets up with emotionally at stake in the graduate.

Do you like my like you? Thank you so much. Do you believe that? Do you. Yes? You're the first.

So the first thing for so long that I'd like. The first person I could stand to be with. My whole life such a waste. There's just nothing.

So what's at stake here is Ben is falling in love with the Lane. But it's not just you know that she's pretty and have had a good time going out, but that he feels connected to her like she's the first person he can stand to talk to you know the first person that can stand to be around. And Ben has been a guy like this has been his quest for the whole movie is to try to find somebody. He can connect to and now he's finally found it. He's finally found a Lane and there's that connection made so it's a love story. But it's also story about finding someone that you can talk to and somebody who understands you. And this is the thing that Ben has been searching for the whole movie, so now we go to the philosophical stakes of the graduate and it's a little murkier than Star Wars. It's not quite so black and white. It's not just like you know good guys and bad guys. You know it's a little murkier. But to figure it out you know you go back and you figure out who's the antagonist of your story and what's the antagonist Aria like? What's the moment in which your bad guy, says your hero like kid here is the way the world works. So there's 1 person who comes along in the first 5 minutes of the graduate and explicitly talked about what his future should be. So here's the speech, I think a lot of people would consider the Intactness area of the graduates. I just want to say one word to you.

Just one word. Yes, Sir. Are you listening just so you? Plastics. Exactly how do you mean is it great future in plastics? Think about it. What do you think about? Yes, I will I've said.

That's a deal so plastics right there's a great future in it, but I would argue that this is actually not the antagonists area of the story because it's only one word, and it doesn't really speak to the underlying values that are embedded in the story.

There's actually a scene, a few minutes later on. Where someone sits down with Ben and tells him how he should be living his life and I would say that's The Real Antagonist area of the graduate so just to set the scene. Mrs Robinson has sort of asked Ben to drive her home, she's lured him into the house, she lures him upstairs. Into her bedroom and then she comes in and drops all are close, and she says. Ben I'm ready to have an affair with you. I'm available to you. Anytime and all my God, all of a sudden, Mr Robinson pulls in and Ben has to quickly run downstairs and sit down there and pretend like he was looking after her and. And trying to protect her and just waiting for Mr Robinson to come home and Mr Robinson comes in the presence of a drink right and he sits down, and he tells Ben How Ben should be living his life. So here in all its glory is the Antagonist area of the graduate. Men.

I think I think you ought to be taking it a little easier right now, then you seem to be. So a few. Wild Oats take things as they come. Have a good time with the girls and so forth don't get out. I was just telling Ben here that he ought to so a few wild oats. Have a good time while he can you think that sound advice? Yes, I do?

I got to go so there's a bag I send your hero like go out? Have fun with the girls you know, don't take things, too seriously and you think yourself. Well, is that maybe that's what's at stake philosophically is that it's just like? True love versus going out and having empty 6, but there's more to it. Obviously it's got to be a little bit more than that, so there's another scene later in the movie where Ben and Mrs Robinson embark on this affair and they're going out in their sneaking and they're going to hotel room and having sex all the time. And they never talk to each other like Ben is trying to connect, he's trying to connect and they never talk about anything so far, there's a scene in the movie in which he says no no. I want to talk. I want to have a conversation and so this is a scene that also is a clue as to what the philosophical stakes of the story are I don't know anything about how you work this.

What do you say when you leave the house at night? Nothing he's asleep always? Does he wake up when you come home? We have separate bedrooms. So you don't. I mean, I don't like to seem like I'm trying but I guess you don't sleep together. Anything now we don't well. How long has this been going on for God sake. Let's drop. Why did you marry? See if you can guess. Well, I can't. Think real hard venture and I can see why you doing this. You didn't have to marry him or anything did you.

Don't tell him I said.

So what we learn in this scene is that Mrs Robinson didn't get married to Mr Robinson because she loved him right. She only got married to him because she got pregnant, Anne in the world at the time single moms are frowned upon an if you got pregnant, you are expected to get married to the man. You got pregnant, too. So you're saying philosophically. It seems as though what's at stake here is this question of do. Live your life, according to sort of true love or do you live your life, according to social expectations but it's not just like social expectations right? There's also this sense of sort of Jadedness and cynicism and sort of shallowness and like using other people. So you feel like you know, maybe that's what's at stake is true love verses of this horrible cynicism in the world.

And now the problem for Ben is that he doesn't have a mentor. He does have Obi Wan. He doesn't have any sort of wise elder person who's going to come up and say like kid. Here's how you gotta do it like don't pay any attention to those other people. Here's a better way to live your life so Ben's mentor, this is my argument. N's mentor, is actually his feelings his feelings are the thing that sort of guiding him through life and it's going to come up into conflict with the dominant values over this world so the contest philosophically in this story is between Ben and his feelings versus this whole dominant world. And this whole universe of sort of cynicism jadedness and shallowness and just people using other people.

But it all kind of comes together in this beautiful scene that they stage in the middle of the movie in which Ben picks up Lane. They go out on a date and what's great about it is. On the first date, Ben is enacting all those bad values in the universe. He's enacting the dominant values. She's being this sort of cynical jaded sleazy guy and he takes to the strip club and it's just awful you know, and he's trying to live his life, according. To the dominant values of that universe and then finally he looks up. He sees are crying. He feels terrible about it and they gonna have hamburgers and then they have this conversation and this is such a lesson for screenwriters, which is if your hero is going to talk to his love interest and they're going to bond you really only get one scene and you have to get it.

Exam. Right it has to be a bullseye so here is the scene in which Ben Annalene have gone out. They've gotten hamburgers. They're sitting in their car and they connect with each other not just emotionally. But they connect with each other sort of philosophically so here's a scene, which is laying out what's philosophically at stake. In the graduate.

Later. Option that I have to be rude all the time you know what I mean. Yes, I do. It's like I've been playing some kind of game, but the rules don't make any sense to me. They're being made up by all along people no. I mean, no one makes him a place and we've made themselves up.

So this is what I think is philosophically. It's taken the graduate is this question of how do you live your life? Do you live your life, according to everyone's expectations, according to sort of the rules of social conformity or do you trust your feelings? Do you do you live your life, according to what's inside you? What your feelings are? And what's interesting about that is that rules are the provenance of the community. We all have rules so that we can all get along within the community and feelings are all about the individual so in a weird way the graduate is the opposite of Star Wars in terms of the value of the graduate is saying. Your individual feelings are more important than the rules of the community your individual feelings are more important than sort of the stifling conformity of the San Fernando Valley. Back in the 60s OK. So you have 3 sets of states in the graduate externally. It's what's going to happen in future. And will it be different internally it's a sense of love with Elaine Robinson, but it's mostly about this sense of connection. He's finally found someone to connect with and can he sustain that connection and then philosophically? Is this question of do you live your life, according rules and expectations or do you live your life, according to your own? Feelings here's the page count for the graduate if it were hypothetically a 100 page screenplay. If you begin to the beginning. You meet Benjamin Braddock. He sort of lost. He's alienated. He's floating around his pool. He doesn't like his parents. He doesn't want to be there, but he doesn't know sort of how to make his future different.

And then boom you're inciting incident is Mrs Robinson, like drops her clothes and propositions him and says, I'm available to you anytime. I want to have an affair. And then like hamlet.

Ben sort of others and others, he doesn't know what to do and then finally. After the scuba diving scene he's like I can't take it anymore. I can't take the isolation anymore. I gotta connect. I gotta try and connect with someone so he begins affair with Mrs Robinson. You kind of know it's not the thing that he should be doing, but he calls her up, they go to hotel room. And he begins the affair and now just like Star Wars management has a goal in the Second Act, but it's not an external goal. It's not anything he's trying to achieve in the outside world band is pursuing an internal goal. He's trying to connect with somebody and then what happens is an this is brilliant.

Of course, is that as soon as your hero embarks on their second quest. You want to have a wrench come in and like you know blow their plans apart so in Star Wars Alderon gets blown up in the graduate you have Mrs Robinson says to being you cannot date the Lane. I have a daughter, but you're not allowed to data and Bingo. Fine. I won't date her own age 50 has to go On this date with the Lane and he's trying to act like a jerk and sort of keep at arms length and he can't do it and at the end of the night. They've connected with each other so you hear got what he wanted right. He connected with somebody but it just wasn't in the way that he expected.

So as soon as Ben has connected with the Lane right. You have to throw a new complication into your story. So, Mrs Robinson figures out all my God, like Ben is falling in love with the Lane and she goes to Elena. She lies she says that Ben raped her. And she disconnects Ben from Alliant, you know, she's sort of takes Elaine away from Ben and send her off to Berkeley. So the rest of the second act is been going up to Berkeley sort of pursuing lay Robinson sort of following her around wing who are willing her and he finally finds out that you know.

Mrs Robinson told all these lies to Elaine says no no that didn't happen that didn't happen and he's gradually wearing down her defenses and you get to the end of the Second Act, an you get.

The first kiss moment and boom. You've got it like Ben has connected with Elaine. So you get to the end of the second act and Ben has actually achieved his goal. He's been able to connect with somebody who understands him who gets him and he doesn't quite feel so alone in the universe your hero has achieved. His second goal of connecting with somebody and then of course, you have to turn it all over 'cause. It's the end of the second act and Mr Robinson shows up and he takes a little Lane away from Ben and the climax of the story is of course, is been going Elaine. Elaine Elaine and then you have your happy ending.

Ok, so here's the second big reversal of the graduate and again. It's the moment in which your hero has finally achieved his second goal, which embeds cases just to connect with another human being and then one page later. Suddenly, a trap door opens underneath your hero and he falls into this all or nothing. Do or die situation so here it is the second act break reversal of the graduate. Goodnight. We're getting married. No. Day after tomorrow.

I don't know maybe we are maybe we're not.

Pop. Do you want to you want to try and tell me why you did it.

Mr Robinson so there's a lot going on at this moment right because you've got to the end of the Second Act. Ben his sort of wood. Elaine she came back, she gave him this perfect kiss. He went out to buy the ring. You think everything is going great, but there's a bunch of. Huge setbacks happening all at the same time before the scene happened. There was an enormous like emotional set back internal set back because Ben has found out that Elaine is actually engaged to marry Carl to make out King of the fraternity.

One page later after the Kiss Mr Robinson shows up the very next scene and takes Elaine away from Ben and says that's it. You're never going to see her again. We're hiding her. You're never going to get the chance to connect to this person that you thought you had this such a strong connection with and so Ben.

The next thing to the movies. He runs over to the sorority where Lane is and he's trying to find her again, you know, and she's already gone but she's left behind the letter and this is a huge philosophical set back in the story and this was called Judas moment of betrayal because Elaine says to Ben. I love you, but it would never work an again. It's now your heroes closest ally. Elaine Robinson is telling Ben I love you. You know, my feelings are that I love you. But it would never work because of the circumstances. We have to follow social rules. Instead of following our feelings so again this is a huge filosofal set back here's the scene.

Her roommates coming down with a note for you. Dear Benjamin, please forgive me. Because I know what I'm doing is the best thing for you. My father is so upset you've got to understand. I love you, but it would never workout.

So now you're at the end of the Second Act. You're heading in the third act and bend the hero has just had these huge setbacks in all 3 sets of Steaks and now you're heading towards the climax. Your story and again what you want to happen is you never want anything going right for your hero between page 75 in Page 90. You just want one set back after another so the graduate.

The first thing then does is he confronts Mrs Robinson Anne. She says, well the wedding is already. And Elaine is getting married, and we won't tell you where it is sorry.

We won't be able to invite you to the wedding Benjamin.

But the arrangements have been so rushed so he finally learns wedding is he drives like crazy to Santa Barbara. He runs out of gas, he runs like crazy down to the church, he gets to the church. The doors are locked, you know, he doesn't know what to do and he runs up those stairs and he comes up to the mezzanine. He looks down and he sees Elaine Kiss. Carl and you go Oh my God. They're married.

It's too late and that's your moment of despair, so Ben is failed externally right because. Elaine is Mary Carlin, he's now facing this empty future but he's also failed. Internally, which is his love that he has related it's not being reciprocated anymore. And it seems as though that connection that bond that he felt with with Elena's been lossed but he's also.

This is important, he's also failed philosophically because now it seems as the rules of triumphed over feelings that Jadedness and cynicism have triumphed over love that conformity is triumphing over non conformity and basically the whole big bad world has triumphed over Benjamin Braddock.

And ideally what you want is if you stop the movie at this moment and you just ask ceiling audience have never seen it before you go like well? How is been going to get out of this again the best thing that you want is for audiences to go? I don't know that's it. It's over. He screwed there's no way Ben is going to get what he wants. You have to have your monitor despair seem like it's absolute done deal. There's no positive outcome possible and then you have your decisive act and I'm just going to play the last 2 minutes of the graduate and you can see how it all unfolds and then I'll go back and I'll break it down as to what's happening in every moment but here it is. And if you haven't seen the movie before if you've never seen the graduate. My God, stop watching this lecture right now turn it off go watch the graduate and then come back and now that you've come back and you've seen the graduate here is the 2 minute climax of the graduate.

Oh, Jesus. North.

Hello. Wish that guy what's he doing? Is too late?

Stop.

Crazy.

Ok, so there, it is it's like one of the greatest endings of all time. And if you break it down under the hood. It works in a lot of the same ways that the climax of Star Wars works so you get your moan of despair right.

Ben is there at the window. He's looking down and laying his married card Carl and you go Oh my God, it seems like there's no. Good outcome possible and then you have again the kamikaze moment of commitment, which is your mentors voice coming back, and speaking. You know inside the head of the hero and going like Remember Remember remember what we talked about in the first act. So of course, bends mentor is this feelings you see him struggling in this moment where he's looking down and he's struggling like do?

I follow the rules. I mean, this is a moment of maximum social conformity? Do I follow the rules and just not say anything or do I let my feelings out. So is kamikaze moment of commitment is that he decides he's going to follow his feelings he's not going to follow rules. He's not going to follow anyone's expectations. He's just going to trust his feelings just like Luke does. He's going to trust his feelings any raises his hands up and he starts pounding on the window right and he starts calling out.

Elaine Elaine Elaine and it's such a great kamikaze moment. Will come in because the first time you see this movie right you go Oh my God? What are you doing? You're making everything worse you know like you just feel like? Oh, you're digging your hole deeper you're fooling the audience into thinking that you're karo is doing the wrong thing. But because he did that right because you listen to his feelings. That's the thing that turns the laying around and then you have Mrs Robinson restate the dominant values of the universe by saying. Right he's too late right, which means that rules are going to triumph over feelings that conformity is going to triumph over true love and at that moment. You just want to go well. That's it. According to the rules of this world even if he's up there banging on the window. It's too late like Elaine has already gotten married. And then the decisive act is sort of the Han Solo moment like Elaine comes in and she just yells out and that's the moment in which she flips over right? She is going to live your life, according to her feelings right and not according to everyone's expectations so the moment that Elaine has been right your.

Overturning the internal states of the story. The emotional stakes of the story because you're saying Oh my God, that connection that they have that bond they felt it's still there. It's still powerful like they're willing to like make fools of themselves in public because they feel that strongly. And then because she calls out Ben you know you have Mrs. Robson go over there and say to her. It's too late and Lance has not for me and that's overturning the philosophical states of the story because what Elaine is saying to Mrs Robinson at this moment is like you live your life, according to everyone's expectations and that's how you choose to live your life, but not for me like. If I married Carl even if we're in the church and everybody stand there. Watching us like I am not going to let everyone's expectations dictate my life, I'm going to listen to my feelings and that's going to be. My guide to life and now because you've overturned the philosophical sticks your story.

Paneling you know fight and push and shove and go through the glass doors and they get away in your overturning the external structure of your story. O lanes has been your overturning the internal states your story is too late not familiar overturning the philosophical sticks your story. And embedded only escape your overturn the external stakes your story. It happens in 42 seconds and that is an insanely great ending.

Ok so now we have to listen China, which is embarrassing because that script is just nowhere near as great as Star Wars or the graduate, but at least it shows how I was able to take lessons from those. Snips and apply them to a screenplay of my own.

Man, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have one last disclaimer 'cause again. I just know I'm going to roast alive by people who are going to say that I'm trying to turn storytelling into a paint by numbers exercise, which is not what I'm trying to do like all these storytelling. Ideas don't apply to the most important part of storytelling, which is just coming up. With a great idea and with great characters and getting a first draft down on paper, so you can't use these story ideas to plot forward OK. They only work in retrospect. When you've already had that great moment of inspiration. You've laid down that first draft and now you're just trying to find a way. To turn it into the best version of itself OK. It's like when all else fails. You read the directions right so end of disclaimer. Let's look at Little Miss Sunshine States. Little sunshine are pretty easy to figure out there all set up in this following scene.

There's no sense in entering contest if you don't think you're going to win so do you think you can win Little Miss Sunshine Richard? Are you going to win? Yes. We're going to California.

It is pretty simple what's external stake in Little Miss Sunshine is whether all of Hoover is going to win the Little Miss Sunshine Contest. When I was writing the script. I thought you know what I was going to try to do was to have the smallest possible set of External Stakes. But then have the emotional stakes and especially the philosophical steaks be as big as possible so it was a deliberate choice on my part. For comedy to have the external stakes be as small as possible now in terms of the internal emotional stakes. It's also pretty simple. Here's the scene in which were stablishing in the first act? What's emotionally at stake in Little Miss sunshine.

You know actually there is a message from Cindy on the machine something that Little Miss sunshine. What? Little Miss sunshine.

Cheryl. Last month, she was runner up in the rear. Will they just? Forfeit her Crown. I don't know why something about diet pills, but anyway. Now she has a place in the state contest in Redondo Beach.

So I didn't even realize like what a crucial scene that was until after I wrote the script and even after I sort of saw the movie, I realized like just like that moment of olive like getting the news and reacting. In such a such a like euphoric way right in such an emotional way that was the thing that allowed people to jump on board with the movie series stablishing right at the beginning.

What's emotionally at stake in this movie? Is all of hopes and dreams. She wants to become a beauty Queen. But it's not just about hopes and dreams right because what you want is sort of in the middle of your story. You always try to sort of deep and the stakes your story reveals something that your audience hadn't suspected so there's a scene in the middle of the movie that adds the emotional stakes of the movie. So here it is it's olive and grandpa in the motel room, setting up the internal emotional stakes of the story. Grandpa yeah.

Am I pretty olive. You are the most beautiful girl in the whole world. You're just saying that I'm madly in love with you and it's not because your brains your personality. It's because you're beautiful inside and out. Grandpa. I don't wanna be a loser loser would you get the idea you loser? Yes.

That he. Losers so suddenly you're revealing that it's not just about sort of olive achieving our hopes and dreams. It's also the story of this little girl who's trying to connect her dad. You know, she's reaching out to her dad and she feels like the only way. As she can do it is to be a winner, 'cause Richard is obsessed with winning so now, what you're putting at stake is not just like is she going to achieve our hopes and dreams. But it's also her fear of failure and her fear of letting her father down and so is that bond between the child and the parent that bond between Richard and. And all of that is now being threatened an put at stake and now we get to the philosophical steak so story. Once again, you just have your bad guy show up give his antagonist area and he's saying to the audience into the characters like this is the way the world works. So here is the Antagonist area.

Miss sunshine there are 2 kinds of people in this world winners and losers inside each and everyone of you at the very core of your being. He's a winner waiting to be awakened an unleashed upon the world.

So it's Richard Wright. Richard is the philosophical intactness a Little Miss sunshine because he's sort of the embodiment the apotheosis. Of the dominant values of this universe, he sees a whole world in terms of sort of winners versus losers and his whole. We have looking at the world is based on sort of status and rank and hierarchy and basically the approval of others like you're trying to be a winner, and you're trying to at all costs. Avoid being a loser and what's important is that these are the dominant values of this whole universe. It's not just richer. Richards is the most sort of like virulent embodiment of these values, but everybody else in this in this universe kind of shares the same sort of like.

I want to be number one. I want to be a winner kind of value. So you have Richard. He's a motivational speaker. He wants to be a success, he wants to be a winner, but you also have sort of. You know, Frank, who's sort of the high brow version of Richard. He wants to be the number one through scholar.

In EU Larry Sugarman is perhaps the second most highly regarded proof scholar in the US or one. That would be me.

Rich and you also have Duane, who wants to be a fighter pilot like who has this idea of just sort of. You know, joining the Navy and sort of like transcending his whole family and I would call these sort of like the values of public life. You know the values of sort of. The marketplace where you're trying to you know sort of impress other people, you know, and avoid being seen as a loser and so just as you have an antagonist in the philosophical realm in Little Miss sunshine. You also have a mentor you sort of an Obi Wan Kenobi. And he's a guy who's going to sit down with your with your hero and go like don't listen to all those other people like here are the real values that are important in life. So here is the philosophical mentor of Little Miss sunshine.

I don't wanna be a loser loser would you get the idea you loser? It is. Dad hits losers whoa back up a minute, you know what a loser is. A real loser is somebody that's so afraid of not winning they don't even try. Now you're trying right. Do not lose it. We're going to have fun tomorrow right? Please. We can tell him or like what the hell. Goodnight. I love you.

So it's Grandpa Grandpa is the Obi Wan Kenobi of this movie. He's the mentor for all of it. He's the one who says like you know, we're going to have fun tomorrow like we can tell them all to go to hell like it doesn't matter what other people think it doesn't matter if we win or lose and so grandpa. You know for him life is not about winning the approval of others is just about having fun, having pleasure sort of freedom and autonomy. It's about letting yourself be defined by. Itself and not being defined by others and I would call those sort of the values of private life. You know it's sort of the values of friendship. The values of romance. The values of creativity. The values of the spirit like the things that other people can't see you know, those are the values that they grandpa. Sort of is all about so you're setting up this universe in which sort of the dominant values of the universe. You know are the values of the public self. You know you live for others. You live for status. The underdog values of this universe are sort of the values of private life, you know that you're going to. Live for yourself, you don't care what anyone else thinks and this is kind of the reason why I wrote the whole movie, which is if you allow me to get up on my soapbox for a second.

I feel like we all live kind of 2 lives. We sort of 2 cells. We have our public self, which is all about sort of like wealth and position and status is all the stuff that is visible. It's all the stuff that everybody else can see and judge You on, but we also have private lives. We also have stuff. That's hidden from the rest of the world is visible only to a few people like only 2. If you loved ones. And that's you know your private life, and I just feel like we're at a point where the values of public life sort of the values of the marketplace. The values of judging people. As to being winners and losers is starting to seep into the realm of private life, and especially into the realm of childhood and I just think that's terrible. I think that children need to be protected from those values that childhood should just be about childhood. And what's important about these 2 sets of values is the public values of wealth position status. Fame success just being an adult.

Those are things that are not in your control and the stuff in private life, Love Friendship creativity. Those are things that are within your control and as a stoic say if your happiness is dependent on things you can't control your never going to be happy, so Little Miss Sunshine was written to sort of stick up for the values of private Life OK so.

Lecture over I'm getting off my soapbox OA Little Miss sunshine. The page count. We start even before the movie begins. We've established that Frank has failed. He's had this sort of failed love affair. You start on page. When you meet olive Ann. She's practicing to be in a beauty pageant, but nothings happening yet. Inciting incident all from the blue change their heroes life changes. Their sense of the future aunt. Cindy calls says you've got a place in a Little Miss Sunshine Pageant right so like hamlet. The family sort of dealers and others and is trying to figure out what they're going to do and what they realize that. All gotta go to Redondo Beach. So, your first outbreak. They set off. They all get the W Bush. They take off their driving to Redondo Beach, so you get into your second act and of course, things start going wrong. You know sort of on page 37, Richards book deal falls through on page. 50 at the midpoint grandpa dies, you get the page 62, and Wayne like realizes colorblind realizes he's never going to pilot realizes his dream is all over and a boom paid 75. You get to the end of the second act and they arrive at Redondo Beach. So you arrived on a beach and your heroes have achieved their second goal right. But now you're forcing the stakes of our global goal because all of his now either going to win the Little Miss Sunshine Pageant. Like she promised Richard or she's going to lose a pageant but there's no going back it's all or nothing. Do or die killer be killed and then you have your Judas moment of betrayal right. You have the person who's closest to your hero go and stab them. In the back philosophically and that's Duane. Duane is olive's closest ally. He's the person who's sort of. The closest with her and he looks around any sees what's going on, he says. This place is fucked and he goes back and he talks to Cheryl and he says like I don't want her to go on mom like she's not a beauty Queen and all of overhears us.

Hey, how you feeling better or solve their what's up mom. I don't want doing this? Oh my God. Around this place is fucked right? I don't want these people judging all of Fuck. Damn, no it's not too late. You're. Mom and you're supposed to protect her. Everyone is going to laugh at her mom. Please don't let her do this all of whom are 2 minutes. She's not a beauty Queen.

And so when Dwayne goes backstage right, he's seeing the world through Richard's eyes. He saying in this life. There's winners and losers an olive is not going to win. So I don't even want her to go on so the third. You want nothing but setbacks happening so. You know with Little Miss sunshine. Those setbacks happening all the way through the movie, so Frank has failed you know, Larry Sugarman gets the guy Richard fails, Stan Grossman rebuffs him you know grandpa dies your philosophical mentor is gone. Dwayne fails, they arrive in Redondo Beach. Then you get to the swimsuit show and you're just establishing visually that olive is just kind of out of her League and she doesn't fit in with everybody else and then you get to the talent competition and you show like Oh my God, all the other girls have these great crazy kind of routines and then you have Richard Go Backstage. And he says like I don't want to go on and you have. Dwayne go backstage and say she's not a beauty. Queen mom and you get to your kamikaze moment of commitment or shell sits down with olive right and she says for olive like we've come all this way like we're proud of you but. You don't have to do this, if you don't want to so it's up to you like you can either go on and dance or you can sit this one out. It's all up to you and this is your kamikaze moment of commitment right because this is the moment where hero is sitting there and they have to make a choice, they have to decide. What they're going to do an there's 2 sets of values an olive at this point has heard there's no way she's going to win an issue. We're living her life, according to Richard values. There's no sense in any constant. We can't win, she wouldn't go on, but there's something else. Like she's got the voice of her mentor, she's got grandpa right who comes back and says like will tell'em all to go to hell. We're going to have fun tomorrow, so listening to the voice of the mentor again. All of stands and she walks down and she's going to go on an again what you want. In a good sort of kamikaze moment of commitment. You want your audience going no no no don't do it like you want your audience freaking out and going like stop stop don't do that. So then olive walks on stage and she's just like standing there right. She's got a funny costume on at this moment you want it to seem. Like Olive is doomed like she's going to lose and be humiliated and it's just going to be like the worst thing ever and there's no positive outcome possible so let's just play the climactic 2 minutes and then we'll go back and we'll see how it works on motherhood so here it is. The 2 minute climax of Little Miss sunshine. Ok.

I'd like to dedicate this to my grandpa who showed me these moves. Oh, that is so sweet. Is a year with your grandpa right now? In the trunk of our car. Ok, well take it away olive.

She's a very kinky girl. Times. She will not. Once you get off the street. She likes the boys in the band. Since that time, all time favorite. The right time, he's never had please.

I really love you.

What? Is your daughter doing?

Kicking ass.

Ok, so here's how it breaks down. I'll have walks out on stage and you get the joke about the trunk of the car and then the MC leaves an olive is left alone on stage. And this is your Mona told failure right because it seems like all of his doomed like she's doomed to external failure. She's not going to win a Little Miss Sunshine Contest and then there is an internal failure to because not only is olive gonna sort of like lose the contest and be humiliated. But she's also going to sort of hurt that relationship with her dad and there's just going to be this overall like sense of family shame amongst the Hoover family because they're all such a horrible bunch of losers and now you also have a philosophical failure right because you're saying winning is more important than fun. Public image is more important than your private self competition is more important than just leisure and then you have your decisive act so the music starts an all starts dancing and their sense of act is he tears her pants off which means she's going to fail externally right because she's not going to win the Little Miss Sunshine Contest.

But at the very same instance, she's succeeding philosophically because she's in acting and affirming the values of grandpa taught her back in the motel right. We're going to fund tomorrow and we can tell him to go to hell and the last set of Steaks is emotional right because you still have that relationship between all of them Richard at stake. And at first, it was uncomfortable right, he's embarrassed but as he watch is the audience. Heckle olive and then they get up and they start to walk out. Richer converts to the underdog values of the story and he stands up and he starts supporting olive so all of pterosaur pants off. She fails to overturn the external sticks of story. But at the very same instance, she's affirming grandpas values and that's over. In the philosophical sticks of the story and then Richard stands up and start supporting all of and that's overturning the emotional stakes of the story. It happens in 45 seconds and that I hope he's insanely great ending OK so in summary you're insanely great ending is. You have your second break reversal. You've solved your second goal but you're creating a crisis in your global goal. You have an act 3 drive one set back after another down to a moment of despair. You have your kamikaze moment of commitment in which your hero is acting on. The mentors values you have this moment of despair in which it seems as though you've been defeated.

Internally, externally and philosophically and there's no positive outcome possible and then you have your decisive act that turns everything around and what's crucial here. The most important thing is that your decisive act is meaningful. And that is an enactment of the underdog values of the story an because your hero trust them enter because he trusts. The underdog values of the story that allows for a rapid reversal of Steaks in the story in your overturning the moral order.

The universe that you've created and what's interesting about these movies is that all the heroes. Luke Ben and all of our all innocent heroes? Which means they are not flawed. So the conflict. In this story comes from the universe that they exist and they live in a flawed universe there. Not flawed characters in a flawed universe, which means that Luke Ben and Oliver all the redeemers of that universe zero in a nutshell. You create a flawed universe. You overturn the moral order of that universe from negative to positive in 45 seconds or less. And that is an insanely great ending. So that's pretty much everything I know about how to write a story with an insanely great ending an remember I'm not saying that this is the only way to tell a story. Ok, a story can be anything. Like you can write a story anyway. You want I'm just hoping that if you love movies. Ann you're just starting out trying to write your own screenplay. Maybe some of these ideas will be helpful so good luck and happy writing.