‘The Card Counter,’ ‘Mass,’ and Our Ache for Atonement
OCTOBER 8, 2021  |  BRETT MCCRACKEN
《算牌人》《弥撒》与赎罪之痛
2021年10月8日｜布雷特-麦克拉肯

Editors’ note: 
TGC reviews media that is not suitable for everyone. To help readers make wise viewing decisions, we recommend reading “Should I Watch This?” and checking out a content guide (such as this one for R-rated The Card Counter and this one for PG-13-rated Mass).

编者注：

TGC评论的影视并不适合所有人。为了帮助读者做出明智的观看决定，我们建议阅读 “我应该看这个吗？”并查看内容指南（例如这个R级的《算牌》和这个PG-13级的《弥撒》）。

Paul Schrader’s The Card Counter and Fran Kranz’s Mass are two of this fall’s best films. Though in different settings and styles, they both explore questions of sin, justice, and atonement. Though intense and not appropriate for all audiences, both films provide good fodder for small-group discussion.

保罗-施拉德（Paul Schrader）的《算牌人》和弗兰·克兰兹（Fran Kranz）的《弥撒》是今年秋天最好的两部电影。虽然环境和风格不同，但它们都探讨了罪恶、正义和赎罪的问题。虽然内容过火，并不适合所有观众，但这两部电影都为小组讨论提供了良好的素材。

In a world where atrocities and evil are constantly filling our feeds, the doctrine of sin is something most people accept without reservation. There are fewer and fewer illusions that “we are basically good.” No, we are obviously deeply messed up. All have fallen short. Sin is pervasive. It’s the next part that modern society struggles with: what to do about sin? We know justice must be done. Someone must pay. But what punishments suffice? For how long must the guilty atone for their wrongdoing? And when no clear culprit is available to punish, who pays then? And if not a God of judgment, who is righteous enough to definitely administer justice and determine who makes atonement, and how? These are the questions these films take up, in different ways.

在一个暴行和邪恶不断充斥的世界里，大多数人毫无保留地接受罪的教义，认为 "我们基本上是好人 "的幻觉越来越少了。不，我们显然一群很糟糕的人，所有人都有亏缺。罪无处不在。现代社会为如何处理罪而苦苦挣扎。我们知道正义必须得到伸张，必须有人付出代价。但什么样的惩罚才算够？有罪之人必须为他们的罪错赎多长时间的罪？当没有明确的罪魁祸首可供惩罚时，谁来还债？如果不是审判之神，谁又能公正地主持正义，决定谁来赎罪，以及如何赎罪？这些都是以上电影提出的问题。

Schrader’s Most Theological Film?
The Card Counter is a stylish, thought-provoking drama from the Calvin College-educated mind who brought us First Reformed and The Last Temptation of Christ. On the surface, Paul Schrader’s latest is not as directly theological as First Reformed (which I wrote about here). But as I watched and thought about the film, it strikes me as perhaps Schrader’s most interesting engagement with theological themes.

最体现施拉德神学思考的电影？
《算牌人》是一部时尚的、发人深省的剧情片，导演受过加尔文学院的教育，曾经拍过《第一次归正会》和《基督最后的诱惑》。从表面上看，保罗·施拉德这部新作并不像《第一归正会》（我在这里写过）那样直接涉及神学。但当我观看和思考这部电影时，我觉得它也许体现了施拉德对神学主题的巧思。
 
The plot follows Bill Tell (Oscar Isaac), a card-counting loner whose every move is seemingly haunted by his past and motivated by guilt. Bill certainly did a bad thing. When he was in the military, under the command of an even more depraved boss, Major John Gordo (Willem Dafoe), he tortured prisoners at Abu Ghraib. Caught in incriminating photos, Tell became the face of the atrocity (much like Lynndie England was in real life) and spent eight years in military prison, even as the guiltier-by-degree Gordo got off scot-free.

剧情讲述了比尔·泰勒（奥斯卡·艾萨克），一个算牌的独行侠的故事。他的一举一动似乎都被过去所困扰，并受到内疚重压。比尔当然做过坏事，当他在军队时，在更加堕落的老板约翰·戈多少校（威廉·达福）麾下，奉命在阿布格莱布监狱折磨囚犯。照片外泄，他被抓包，成为暴行的代言人（就像现实生活中的Lynndie England一样），被投入军事监狱中，一关就是8年，而罪大恶极的戈多却逍遥法外。

Bill makes no excuses for his own part in the sin and he accepts his fate. Even with a back tattoo that says “I trust my life to providence, I trust my soul to grace,” Bill seems to prefer penance and punishment to absolution and grace. Prison is where he feels at home. When he’s released from prison, his card-counting vocation feels aimless and unfulfilling, and he lives in hotel rooms he decorates to be as spare as a prison cell. He finds some purpose when he meets Cirk Baufort (Tye Sheridan), the son of a man who served alongside Tell at Abu Ghrabib and committed suicide in the scandal’s aftermath.

比尔没有为自己的罪过找任何借口，他接受了自己的命运。即使背上的纹身写着 "我把我的生命交给天意，我把我的灵魂交给恩典"，比尔似乎更喜欢自戕和惩罚而不是赦免和恩典。监狱让他感到自在。出狱后，他成为职业算牌人，但这不能给人生带来目标和满足。他住在酒店里，总是把房间装饰得像监狱牢房一样空荡。当他遇到柯克·巴福特（Tye Sheridan）时，他找到了一些人生目标。巴福特的的父亲曾在阿布格拉比和泰勒一起服役，并在虐囚丑闻发生后自杀。

For Bill, young and fatherless Cirk becomes a new outlet for his penance. He decides to put his card-counting skills to work on the poker tournament circuit, hoping to earn enough money to pay Cirk’s debts. Note the significance of Bill’s name, by the way, in a film all about who pays debts. He’s a character obsessed with recompense and atonement—making things right after a wrong has been done. I won’t spoil how this plays out in the film’s final moments, but it involves Bill’s old boss Gordo, in a devilish role played by the same actor (surely not coincidentally) who played Jesus in the Schrader-scripted Last Temptation of Christ.

对于比尔来说，年轻的、丧父的柯克成为他忏悔的一个新出口。他决定将他的算牌技巧用于扑克比赛，希望能赚到足够的钱来帮柯克还债。编剧取比尔(Bill)这个名字颇有深意，因为这是一部关于谁来偿还账单（Bill）的电影。他是一个痴迷于补偿和赎罪的人物，在做错事之后还想把事做好。这一点在影片最后时刻如何表现，我不会剧透，但它涉及比尔的老上司戈多。这个恶魔似的角色在施拉德编剧的《基督的最后诱惑》中扮演耶稣（这肯定不是巧合）。

Understanding Gordo’s character and what Schrader is doing there is a rabbit trail worth pursuing in any theological discussion of the film. As the chief teacher of torture who seems to relish the chaos around him, is Gordo the devil? Or is he, as the letters in his name might evoke, some sort of twisted vision of God? I’m not sure, but it’s interesting to mull the question in light of the film’s final scene and Schrader’s Christian faith.

理解戈多这个角色以及施拉德对他所做的事，是对本片进行神学讨论时不容错过的草蛇灰线。作为虐囚的教师爷，戈多似乎很享受周围乱糟糟的一切，他是魔鬼吗？或者，正如他名字字母(Gordo)可能唤起的联想，他是上帝（God）的扭曲版？我不确定，但从影片的最后一幕和施拉德的基督教信仰来看，琢磨这个问题很有意思。

Reconciliation in a Church Basement
Like The Card Counter, Mass is set in the wake of an atrocity. It’s not military torture in this case, but a high school mass shooting in which a student killed 10 fellow students and then himself.

教堂地下室里的和解

与《算牌人》一样，《弥撒》的背景也放在暴行之后。不过不是军事酷刑，而是一所高中里的大规模枪击事件，一名学生开枪打死10名同学，然后自杀。

The entire duration of Mass (a title with a double meaning) takes place in an Episcopal church, as two sets of parents meet for an intense session of grief, anger, and potential forgiveness. The two parents each lost a son in the massacre. One couple’s son was a victim; the other couple’s son was the murderer. They are meeting years after the massacre, yet with plenty of lingering wounds and unresolved grief.

弥撒（Mass, 片名具有双重含义，也可以理解为“大众”），整个故事发生在一个圣公会教堂里，两对父母相聚在一起，经历着激烈的悲痛、愤怒和潜在的宽恕。这对父母在大屠杀中各自失去了一个儿子。一对夫妇的儿子是受害者；另一对夫妇的儿子是杀人犯。他们在大屠杀发生多年后见面，但仍有许多挥之不去的伤口和未解决的伤痛。

The film, which feels like it could also be a stage play, is almost entirely one long dialogue scene between the four individuals. Jason Isaacs and Martha Plimpton play Jay and Gail, parents of the murdered boy, Evan. Reed Birney and Ann Dowd play Richard and Linda, parents of the killer, Hayden. As the intense meeting plays out, painful questions emerge. For Richard and Linda, the questions are about guilt: Could we have seen this coming? Did we raise a monster? Would the world have been better had we never given birth to him? Can we bring ourselves to attribute the word “evil” to the son we birthed and raised?

这部电影，感觉也可以是一部舞台剧，几乎只有四个人漫长的对话这一个场景。杰森·艾萨克斯（Jason Isaacs）和玛莎·普林普顿（Martha Plimpton）扮演被害男孩埃文的父母——杰和盖尔；里德·伯尼（Reed Birney）和安·唐德（Ann Dowd）扮演凶手海登的父母——理查德和琳达。伴随着紧张会晤的进行，痛苦的问题出现了。对于理查德和琳达来说，问题与内疚有关。我们能预见到这一切吗？我们是否养育了一个怪物？如果我们没有生下他，世界会更好吗？我们能把 "邪恶 "这个词安在我们生养的儿子身上吗？

For Jay and Gail, the questions are about justice. How can they move through their grief if no one is made to pay for their son’s death? Hayden killing himself is too easy. Perhaps his parents can be made to atone for their son’s sins. In a telling exchange, Jay convulses in anger against the parents of his son’s killer: “Where is your regret? We want to see regret!” Linda replies with gravity, “I regret everything.” But that’s not enough for Jay. “We want to see you punished,” he replies. “We want to see that you hurt.”

对于杰和盖尔来说，问题与正义有关。如果没有人为他们儿子的死付出代价，他们怎么能走出悲痛？海登自杀太便宜他了。也许可以让他的父母为孽子赎罪。在一次有说服力的交流中，杰对杀害他儿子的父母怒不可遏地说："你们的后悔在哪里？我们想看到的是后悔！" 琳达认真地回答说："我对一切都感到后悔"。但这对杰来说是不够的。"我们希望看到你们受惩罚，"他回答道，"我们想看到你们受伤害。"

Through the proxy of these couples working through the ramifications of Hayden’s sin, Mass explores the messy tension between righteous rage and demands for justice, on one hand, and forgiveness and grace on the other.

通过这对夫妇对海登的罪的影响的代理，Mass探讨了正义的愤怒和正义的要求与宽恕和恩典之间混乱的张力。

通过这些夫妇的代理人处理海登犯罪的后果，弥撒探索了正义的愤怒和对正义的要求之间的混乱紧张关系，一方面，宽恕和恩典。

借助这两对夫妇对海登犯罪后果的处理，《弥撒》探讨了一种混乱的紧张关系：一端是正义的愤怒和伸张正义的要求，另一端是宽恕和恩典。

Final Scenes
Both films reckon with the ramifications of sin. If The Card Counter’s vision of atonement is rather bleak, Mass offers a vision that is somewhat more hopeful. Both films recognize the limits of human justice. In the end, the debts of human sin can never be paid by human justice or virtue. A greater grace is needed—a supernatural grace.

最后的场景

两部电影都在考虑罪的后果。如果说《算牌人》对赎罪的看法相当灰暗，《弥撒》的看法则带着希望。两部电影都承认人类正义的局限性。最终，人类的罪债永远都无法由人类的正义或美德来偿还，需要一个更大的恩典——超自然的恩典。

By setting Mass in a church—with the central action taking place with a cross on the wall and a choir singing upstairs—Kranz seems to acknowledge this. The film doesn’t end with a gospel presentation and only rarely engages direct questions of faith, yet it implies the pathway to reconciliation can only happen in the context of God-given grace. In its stunning final moments, we see banners on the wall of the church that say “God with us,” and then Mass concludes with John Fawcett’s classic hymn growing ever louder from the singing choir above: “Blessed Be the Ties That Bind.” It’s a cathartic note that nods to God’s love as the only thing that can bind hearts together that have been torn asunder by sin.

通过把《弥撒》的场景设置在教堂里——墙上的十字架和楼上的唱诗班作为中心动作的背景，克兰兹似乎承认了这一点。影片没有以传福音结束，也很少直接涉及信仰问题，但它暗示通往和解之路只能在上帝赐下恩典的大背景下才能发生。在令人震撼的最后时刻，我们看到教堂墙上的横幅写着 “上帝与我们同在”，然后《弥撒》在约翰·福赛特（John Fawcett）经典赞美诗中结束，楼上唱诗班《以爱相连》（Blessed Be the Ties That Bind）的歌声越来越响，这是一个宣泄的音符，点明了上帝之爱是唯一可以将被罪撕裂的心联系在一起的东西。
 
The Card Counter’s finale is similarly focused on the hope of love, forgiveness, and reconciliation—albeit in a more subdued way. The film’s final scene finds Bill reconnecting with a love interest, La Linda (Tiffany Haddish), but between them is the glass partition separating visitor and inmate. Schrader pays a lot of attention to a movie’s final shot, and The Card Counter’s final image zooms in on the glass wall at the center of the frame, with Bill and La Linda’s fingers “touching” and yet separated by glass. Perhaps it’s an image of the barriers (sin, pride, inability to receive grace) that keep human reconciliation from being fully realized. Or maybe it’s a hopeful hint at the power of divine grace to bridge the chasm of sin. I’m not sure.

《算牌人》的结尾同样关注爱、宽恕与和解的希望——尽管以一种更低调的方式。影片最后一幕，观众发现比尔与爱人拉琳达（蒂芙尼·哈迪什饰）再续前缘，但他们之间是隔开访客和囚犯的玻璃隔板。施拉德非常重视电影的最后一个镜头，《算牌人》最后一个镜头放大了画面中央的玻璃墙，比尔和拉琳达手指 "相触"，但又被玻璃隔开。也许这是对阻碍人类完全和解的障碍（罪恶、骄傲、无力接受恩典）的形象化表达， 或者，也许这是一个充满希望的隐喻，暗示着神圣恩典的力量可以弥合罪恶的鸿沟。我不确定。

Both films end in striking if ambiguous ways. They don’t resolve the tensions of justice and atonement in this life, but they find a semblance of cathartic peace on a plane of transcendence. If there’s any hope for us in our prisons of sin, these films suggest, it’s in a love that comes from beyond us and subverts our retributive logic.

两部电影都以模棱两可但直击人心的方式结束。 他们没有解决今生正义和赎罪的紧张关系，但他们在超越的层面上找到了一种让情绪得到宣泄的和平。这些电影暗示，如果我们在罪恶的监狱中还有希望的话，那就是来自超越我们并颠覆我们报应逻辑的爱。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/our-ache-atonement/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：‘The Card Counter,’ ‘Mass,’ and Our Ache for Atonement

作者： Brett Mccracken

本文简介：最新关于保守派和自由派基督徒的研究颠覆了传统认知，有三个令人称奇的发现。

本文栏目：艺术与文化

本文标签：电影