Brave New World, 85 Years Later
AUGUST 10, 2016  |  ALASTAIR ROBERTS

美丽新世界，85年之后
2016年8月10日｜阿拉斯泰尔-罗伯茨

Still lauded as an especially timely word to our age, it may come as a surprise to learn that Aldous Huxley’s famous novel, Brave New World, turns 85 years old this year. As a work of futurological fiction, it has sparked much conversation about the values and ideologies explored within its imagined world. 

奥尔德斯·赫胥黎著名的小说《美丽新世界》问世已经85年了，人们依然夸赞它对于我们这个时代特别的实效性，这可能会令人惊讶。作为一部未来主义小说，在其想象的世界里，它引发了许多关于价值观和意识形态探索的对话。

This year’s anniversary affords us a welcome pretext to revisit Huxley’s classic and to reflect on its relevance to the contemporary world.

今年的周年纪念为我们提供了一个很受欢迎的理由，让我们得以重新审视赫胥黎的这部经典作品，并思考它与当代世界的关系。

New World Order 

Brave New World finds its narrative premise and its object of criticism in the ascendant Fordist ideology of Huxley’s day, projected into an unsettling dystopian future. Within Huxley’s World State, Henry Ford is revered as a semi-mythical messianic figure. He’s the basis of its dating system (the book’s events occur in the year 632 A.F.—After Ford), and his name—that of the founder of the new world—is now employed where God’s name was formerly used. Mass production and mass consumption of disposable products (“ending is better than mending”), as well as the values of predictability and uniformity, are fundamental principles of the world order.

新世界秩序 

《美丽新世界》的叙事前提和批评对象来自于赫胥黎那个时代日益受欢迎的福特主义意识形态，并将其投射到一个令人不安的乌托邦式的未来。在赫胥黎的世界国家中，亨利·福特被推崇为半神话式的弥赛亚式的人物。该书的纪年以他为基础（书中的事件发生在 632A.F. 意思是After Ford，即福特之后），他的名字--新世界的创始人--现在取代了上帝的名字。一次性产品的大规模生产和大规模消费（"报废胜过维修"），以及可预测和统一的价值观，是世界秩序的基本原则。

Human beings themselves have become the objects of the World State’s hyper-Fordism. Within a vast eugenics project, people are mass produced through advanced reproductive technologies and conditioning to be docile and serviceable participants in society, fully invested in the production and consumption that constitute its heart. There are five different castes or models of humanity, each carefully designed and conditioned to serve a given social purpose. Individuality and the particularism of familial or monogamous love are resisted as obstructions to social homogeneity and conformity—“everyone belongs to everyone else.”

人类本身已经成为世界国家的超级福特主义的生产对象。在一个庞大的优生学项目中，人们通过先进的生殖技术和条件被大量生产出来，成为社会中温顺、好用的参与者，完全投入到构成社会心脏的生产和消费中。人类有五个不同的种姓或模式，每个都被精心设计和调教，以服务于特定的社会目的。社会强调同质性和一致性，个性化、家庭制、一夫一妻制、以及专一的爱情被视为一种障碍而受到抵制，"每个人都属于其他人"。

As children are molded through uniform production line processes, sexual reproduction, monogamy, and the notion of mothers and fathers have all come to be regarded with disgust. Citizens are encouraged to engage in sterile promiscuous sex, to make them complacent to their servitude and as a means of preventing particular attachments from arising. As Huxley remarks in his introduction, “As political and economic freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends compensatingly to increase.” Individuality and privacy are treated with suspicion.

当孩子们通过统一的生产线被塑造出来，有性繁殖、一夫一妻制以及父母的概念都被深恶痛绝。公民们被鼓励从事不育的滥交，以使他们对自己受奴役的状态感到沾沾自喜，并作为防止产生人与人之间特殊依恋的一种手段。正如赫胥黎在他的导言中所说的，"随着政治和经济自由的减少，作为补偿，性自由往往会增加"。特立独行和个人隐私都遭受质疑。

Infantilization of the population is government policy. The aging of the body and the maturing of the character and mind are arrested and prevented, maintaining the capacities and tastes of the World State’s citizens in a permanent adolescent state. A homogeneous mass entertainment culture promotes social cohesion and quiescence. Intense doses of sensation in the form of “feelies” (a sensually enhanced form of cinematic entertainment) and popular sports all encourage people to be the puerile playthings of their impulses and desires, incapable of delaying gratification, developing conviction, feeling deeply, or devoting wholly to any one cause. Minds saturated with sensation and pleasure—most notably through the wonder hallucinogenic drug “soma”—are inoculated against thought, reflection, and non-conformity.

人口的巨婴化是政府的既定政策。身体的衰老和性格与心智的成熟被阻断，以使世界各国公民的能力和品味永远处于青春期状态。同质化的大众娱乐文化促进了社会的凝聚力和静止性。以 "feelies"（一种感官强化的电影娱乐形式）和流行的体育运动为形式的强烈感官刺激，都鼓励人们被他们冲动和欲望玩于股掌之中，不能延迟满足，不能发展信念，不能深入感受，不能完全投入到任何一个事业中。充满感性和快感的头脑，最明显的是通过接种神奇的致幻药物 "索玛"来防止思考、反思和不守规矩。

[These] all encourage people to be the puerile playthings of their impulses and desires, incapable of delaying gratification, developing conviction, feeling deeply, or devoting wholly to any one cause. Minds saturated with sensation and pleasure . . . are inoculated against thought, reflection, and non-conformity.

[这些]都鼓励人们被他们冲动和欲望玩于股掌之中，不能延迟满足，不能发展信念，不能深入感受，不能完全投入到任何一个事业中。充满感性和快感的头脑，最明显的是通过接种神奇的致幻药物 "索玛"来防止思考、反思和不守规矩。

Brave New World’s title is an ironic allusion to a line in Shakespeare’s The Tempest. Despite its apparent pleasantness, the technocratic and pleasure-sodden society of the World State asphyxiates all of the passions, morality, meanings, ideals, and values of character elevated in the writing of Shakespeare. Easy sex stifles romance. Conditioning and pharmaceutically secured “virtue” substitute for self-denial and character formation. Unrelenting comfort, pleasure, and the absence of struggle make nobility and heroism unnecessary. Poetry, sacrifice, meaning, and God himself have no place in such a world.

《美丽新世界》的标题是对莎士比亚《暴风雨》中一句台词的讽刺性引用。尽管表面上很愉快，但世界国家的技术官僚和快乐的社会窒息了所有的激情、道德、意义、理想和莎士比亚笔下升华的人物价值观。轻松的性爱扼杀了浪漫。条件限制和药物保障的 "美德 "代替了攻克己身和性格形成。无休止的舒适、快乐和缺乏斗争使高尚和英雄主义变得没有必要。诗歌、牺牲、意义和上帝自己在这样的世界中没有地位。

Unimaginable Reality 
Reading Brave New World can be a peculiar experience, as one is alternatively struck by amusingly quaint and alarmingly timely elements. Although the work has aged surprisingly well for futurological fiction, it’s nonetheless a product of its age. Despite Huxley’s prescience and perceptiveness, his vision was largely a projection from and escalation of the emerging dynamics of his age of mass production, mass consumption, and mass society.

无法想象的现实 
阅读《美丽新世界》可能是一种奇特的体验，因为人们会被古色古香的趣味和令人震惊的当下性所轮流震撼。尽管这部作品在未来小说中已经过时了，但它仍然是那个时代的产物。尽管赫胥黎有先见之明和洞察力，但他的异象在很大程度上是对他所处的时代新兴动力的投射和升级：即大规模生产、大规模消费和大众社会。

Reading Brave New World can be a peculiar experience, as one is alternatively struck by amusingly quaint and alarmingly timely elements.

阅读《美丽新世界》可能是一种奇特的体验，因为人们会被古色古香的趣味和令人震惊的当下性所轮流震撼。
 
These dynamics have been superseded, or at least greatly complicated, by many subsequent developments. In a post-Fordist economy and a digital age of personalized devices, mass society is no longer as straightforward as it once seemed. Far from being perceived as a threat, for instance, individuality is now deeply assimilated into our economic system, as we’re encouraged to differentiate, identify, and align ourselves through our chosen forms of consumption. The fact we’re all caught up in the same system is less obvious when we all wear bespoke chains we’ve chosen for ourselves.

这些动力已经被后来的许多发展所取代，或者至少是大大地复杂化了。在一个后福特主义经济和个性化设备的数字时代，大众社会不再像以前那样简单了。例如，个性远没有被视为一种威胁，现在已经深深地被我们的经济体系所同化，因为我们被鼓励通过我们选择的消费形式来区分、识别和调整自己。当我们都戴着我们自己选择的定制链子时，我们都被卷入同一个系统的事实就不那么明显了。

In fact, from our contemporary vantage point, a number of elements of Huxley’s vision seem far too conservative. Writing before the advent of modern genetics, Huxley couldn’t easily have imagined the direct genetic engineering of human beings now on our horizon and the degree of mastery over human nature this offers. Nor does he seem to have anticipated the form of sexuality in our age—the promiscuous sex in Brave New World is all heterosexual. Further, despite existing within a World State, the England providing the backdrop to Huxley’s narrative seems surprisingly provincial at points: Radical globalization had seemingly had limited effect.

事实上，从我们当代的角度来看，赫胥黎设想的一些元素似乎过于保守。在现代遗传学出现之前，赫胥黎不可能轻易想象到我们现在可以对人类直接进行基因工程，以及由此获得的对人性的掌控力。他似乎也没有预见到我们这个时代的性爱形式--《美丽新世界》中的滥交都是异性恋。此外，尽管存在于一个世界国家中，但为赫胥黎的叙述提供背景的英国在某些方面似乎出人意料，激进的全球化在这里似乎效果有限。

From our contemporary vantage point, a number of elements of Huxley’s vision seem far too conservative.

从我们当代的角度来看，赫胥黎设想的一些元素似乎过于保守。

One striking detail of Huxley’s portrayal is that, while the World State is founded on mass production, the process of automation is suppressed, with humans doing jobs that could easily be given to machines or algorithms (Huxley doesn’t explore the possibility of quasi-intelligent machines). From a contemporary vantage point it may require a significant suspension of disbelief to imagine such an economy might be tamed to serve a larger social end, even a dystopian one. Huxley may have feared a Fordist ideology concocted and imposed by “World Controllers” within a command economy—not an unrealistic fear in the age of rising Communism and Fascism; we now seem to have much more reason to fear our subjection to the autonomous and insatiable logic of a runaway capitalist system beyond human design or control.

赫胥黎描写的一个引人注目的细节是，虽然世界国家建立在大规模生产的基础上，但自动化的过程大大受到压制，其实，人类从事的工作很容易被交给机器或算法（赫胥黎没有探讨准智能机器的可能性）。从当代的角度来看，我十分怀疑这样一个经济体可以被驯化以服务于更大的社会目的，哪怕是一个反乌托邦的目的。赫胥黎可能担心 "世界的控制者们 "把福特主义的意识形态炮制和强加在命令式的计划经济中，-在共产主义和法西斯主义崛起的时代，这种担心并非捕风捉影；我们现在似乎更有理由担心我们受制于一个超出人类设计或控制的失控资本主义系统的自主和贪婪的逻辑。

The World State is an intensively planned society, one that can be directly presented in propositions and is integrated by a unified human vision. Much of Brave New World consists of expositional dialogue, within which the human ideology undergirding the World State is explicitly articulated. However, the social developments that most powerfully shape our world no longer seem to be planned and definitely don’t present themselves to us directly. Rather, they’re more typically technological and societal dynamics we set in motion, whose long-term destination is unclear and whose incremental effects on us, though vast in the aggregate and in retrospect, are only perceived obliquely in the moment and the particular—when they’re perceived at all. Though we may be unwittingly conditioned, the conditioner is more likely a technology such as the internet than a human intelligence.

世界国家是一个密集规划的社会，可以直接以命题的形式呈现，并由统一的人类愿景整合而成。《美丽新世界》的大部分内容都是揭示性的对话，其中明确阐述了支撑世界国家的人类意识形态。然而，最有力地塑造我们世界的社会发展似乎不再是通过计划，也绝对不会直接呈现给我们。 相反，这些社会发展更典型地表现为我们启动的技术和社会动力，其长期目标尚不清楚，其对我们的增量影响虽然总体上和回顾起来是巨大的，但只是在当下和特定的情况下才能被间接地感知到。 尽管我们可能会在不知不觉中受到调节，但调节器更可能是一种技术，例如互联网，而不是人类智能。

Dominated by Desire

In the contemporary age, we have more to fear from uncontrollable and inexorable inhuman processes we’ve set in motion, which unfold themselves in society with a demoralizing inevitability. Our world is at the mercy of the twin forces of totalizing capitalism and advancing technology. While the latter extends the scope of what is possible, the former pushes to increase levels of consumption and our unconstrained capacity and urge to do so, overwhelming all obstacles that might curtail them. While human beings are the foot soldiers of these forces, the driving logic of the forces themselves towers over them.

被欲望所支配

在当代，我们更害怕我们启动的无法控制和无情的非人化过程，这些过程在社会中以令人沮丧的必然性展现出来。 我们的世界受制于资本主义总体化和技术进步的双重力量。 虽然后者扩大了可能的范围，但前者推动了提高消费水平和我们不受约束的能力和冲动，压倒所有可能限制它们的障碍。 

在当今时代，我们更害怕我们启动的无法控制和无情的非人道过程，这些过程在社会中以令人沮丧的必然性展现出来。 我们的世界受制于资本主义总体化和技术进步的双重力量。 虽然后者扩大了可能的范围，但前者推动提高消费水平和我们不受约束的能力和这样做的冲动，压倒所有可能限制它们的障碍。 虽然人类是这些力量的走卒，但这些力量本身的驱动逻辑却高过于人类。

This is a key point where Brave New World’s vision resonates. Huxley perceived, better than most, the degrading bondage into which we can be brought by our desire for pleasure. Neil Postman famously contrasted Huxley’s work with Orwell’s 1984, observing Huxley’s recognition that we may be more readily destroyed and dominated through our desires than our fears. Anesthetized by pleasures, entertainments, trivialities, distractions, lusts, and sensuality, we can be inured to the steady erosion of our humanity.

这是《美丽新世界》愿景产生共鸣的一个关键点。赫胥黎比大多数人更清楚地意识到，我们对享乐的渴求会使我们陷入一种有辱人格的束缚。尼尔-波兹曼（Neil Postman）曾将赫胥黎的作品与奥威尔的《1984》进行了著名的对比，他观察到，赫胥黎认识到，与恐惧相比，我们可能更容易被我们的欲望所摧毁和支配。在快乐、娱乐、琐事、分心、欲望和感官的麻醉下，我们可能会对我们的人性被不断侵蚀而感到麻木。

Huxley perceived, better than most, the degrading bondage into which we can be brought by our desire for pleasure. . . . We may be more readily destroyed and dominated through our desires than our fears. 

我们对享乐的渴求会使我们陷入一种有辱人格的束缚……与恐惧相比，我们可能更容易被我们的欲望所摧毁和支配。

In the contemporary world, as Slavoj Žižek has observed, we are subject to a soft totalitarianism that continually charges us to “enjoy!” The market has surrounded us with products and advertising that have been weaponized to excite and mobilize our desire to consume and to break down any resistance we might put up against it. In our oversaturated hyper-real world, we’re exposed to a host of artificially created stimuli that far exceed anything we would’ve previously encountered naturally—from chemically engineered foods, to the dazzling graphics of computer games, to mind-altering drugs, to the vibrant images on our screens, to online pornography, to the carefully manicured tourist destination, to the airbrushed model on the magazine cover, to the sociality of a site like Facebook. All these things are calculated to excite our hunger, overcome our resistance, and drive us to indulge. Capitalism’s wave of intoxicating pleasures overwhelms all obstacles before it—censorship, legal restriction, cultural taboo, social norm, religious virtue, self-control.

在当代世界，正如斯拉沃伊·齐泽克（Slavoj Žižek）所观察到的，我们受制于一种温和的极权主义，它不断地要求我们 "享受！" 。市场已经用产品和广告把我们包围，这些产品和广告已经被当成武器，以激发和调动我们的消费欲望，并瓦解我们可能对其进行的任何抵抗。在我们这个过度饱和的超现实世界里，我们接触到大量人工创造的刺激，这些刺激远远超过我们以前自然遇到的任何刺激：从化学工程食品，到电脑游戏的炫目图形，再到改变心智的药物，到我们屏幕上充满活力的图像，在线色情内容，精心剪裁的旅游目的地，杂志封面上的气质模特，到像Facebook这样的网站上的社交。所有这些东西都是为了激发我们的饥饿感，克服我们的抵抗力，并促使我们放纵其中。资本主义令人醉人的享乐浪潮压倒了它面前的所有障碍--审查制度、法律限制、文化禁忌、社会规范、宗教美德、自我控制。
制度、法律限制、文化禁忌、社会规范、宗教美德、自我控制。

Edmund Burke argued that controls and restraints on human appetites are essential to human freedom, and one of our fundamental rights. Without such controls we can be reduced to infantile prisoners of pleasure, incapable of governing ourselves. A tragic example is the immense damage being caused by pornography, its power to overcome people increased by new technologies and the force of the market, making it both more enticing to consume and more difficult to oppose. And while a society fixated on popular mass entertainment and sports was on the rise in Huxley’s day, the scale of our own societal obsession with these things—and our relatively unquestioning consumption of pop culture as Christians—is arguably without precedent and is worthy of genuine alarm.

埃德蒙·伯克 (Edmund Burke) 认为，控制和约束人类食欲对人类自由至关重要，也是我们的基本权利之一。 如果没有这样的控制，我们就会沦为幼稚的快乐囚徒，无法自我管理。 一个悲惨的例子是色情造成的巨大破坏，新技术增加了它的征服力，市场的力量使色情变得更有吸引力，也更难以对抗。 虽然在赫胥黎时代，一个专注于大众娱乐和体育运动的社会正在兴起，但我们自己的社会对这些事物的痴迷程度——以及我们作为基督徒对流行文化的相对毫无疑问的消费——可以说是史无前例的，值得真正警惕。

Dehumanized Subjects 
Huxley further recognized the danger of human nature being subjected to the logic of production. Perhaps the most central reality of the World State is the replacement of sexual procreation by technical production: Humans cease to be begotten and start to be made. Huxley astutely perceives just how crucial this shift is and draws our attention to its various aspects in great detail: a culture of purely contraceptive sex and relative gender neutrality, the formation of children through conveyor belt-like processes, the elimination of the family and the bonds of love into which children are naturally welcomed, and so on.

非人化的主体 

赫胥黎进一步认识到人性被置于生产逻辑之下的危险。也许世界国家最核心的现实是以技术生产取代了性生殖。人类不再被生育而开始被制造。 赫胥黎敏锐地察觉到这一转变是多么关键，并提请我们注意其各方面的细节：纯避孕的性行为和相对的性别中立的文化，通过类似传送带的过程形成儿童，消灭家庭和自然地欢迎孩子进入的爱的纽带，等等。

Perhaps the most central reality of the World State is the replacement of sexual procreation by technical production: Humans cease to be begotten and start to be made.

也许世界国家最核心的现实是以技术生产取代了性生殖。人类不再被生育而开始被制造。
 
Again, this aspect of Huxley’s work finds troubling resonance within our contemporary world. Through such things as the ideology of abortion, advances in reproductive technology, and the normalization of gender-neutral marriage, children are increasingly rendered subject to the logic of choice and construction. Human dignity itself rests in no small measure on the fact that we are not made but begotten—conceived through a loving gift of bodies that precedes and exceeds political, legal, economic, and technological realms of human activity. A culture that resists or neglects this truth, as ours is prone to do, risks changing its very understanding and treatment of humanity itself.

再一次，赫胥黎的这部作品有一个方面在我们当代世界中引起了令人不安的共鸣。 通过诸如堕胎的意识形态化、生殖技术的进步以及中性婚姻的正常化，孩子们越来越像是被选择和建构的逻辑渲染出来的。 人类尊严本身在很大程度上取决于这样一个事实，即我们不是被制造造而是被生出来的--通过身体受孕，结成爱的礼物，这一切领先并超越人类在政治、法律、经济和技术领域的一切活动。 一种文化，如果抵制或忽视这一事实，就像我们现在倾向的那样，可能会改变文化对于人类本身的理解和对待。

Human dignity itself rests in no small measure on the fact that we are not made but begotten. . . . A culture that resists or neglects this truth, as ours is prone to do, risks changing its very understanding and treatment of humanity itself.

人类尊严本身在很大程度上取决于这样一个事实，即我们不是被制造造而是被生出来的…… 一种文化，如果抵制或忽视这一事实，就像我们现在倾向的那样，可能会改变文化对于人类本身的理解和对待。

Fighting for Freedom 
As Christians in the 21st century, we’re facing a growing and profoundly daunting struggle for human nature and dignity. We must fight against the subjugation of humanity to the tyranny of pleasure, against the amniotic sensuality in which our culture would cocoon us, dulling us to any reality that might elevate our nature by calling us forth in duty, love, or worship. We must resist the allure of technical mastery over our nature—a mastery that risks our dehumanization. And in order to do these things, we must recognize and overcome the treachery that exists in each of our hearts, which would overthrow us from within. Facing these accelerating developments, Huxley’s Brave New World has never been so contemporary, nor the warning it sounds so urgent.

为自由而战 

作为 21 世纪的基督徒，我们正面临着一场日益严峻且极其艰巨的争取人性和尊严的斗争。 我们必须反对人类屈服于享乐的暴政，反对我们的文化将我们包裹在羊水般的感官享受之中，使我们对现实的感觉变得迟钝，从而无法唤醒我们去承担责任、去爱或去敬拜。 我们必须抵制对我们本性进行技术控制的诱惑--这种控制会让我们冒着被非人化的风险。 为了做到这些，我们必须认识并克服存在于我们每个人心中的背叛，它会从内部颠覆我们。 面对这些加速的发展，赫胥黎的《美丽新世界》从未如此具有时代性，它所发出的警告也从未如此紧迫。

Against these things we must reassert the importance of moral self-mastery, of the relation between man and woman and the bestowal of life that can be occasioned by their love, of moral boundaries restricting the reach of the market and development of technology, and of the Lord and Giver of life to whom we are all beholden. If we fail to do so, we risk subjection to a bondage more insidious than any the world has seen.

针对这些情况，我们必须重申道德自律的重要性，重申男女合一的爱来孕育新生命的重要性，重申划定市场和技术发展的道德界限的重要性，以及重申上帝是生命的赐予者、我们都是由他创造的这一真理的重要性。如果我们不这样做，就有遭受有史以来最阴险捆绑的危险。

Alastair Roberts (PhD, Durham University in England) works for both the Theopolis Institute the Davenant Institute. He participates in the Mere Fidelity and Theopolis podcasts, blogs at Alastair’s Adversaria, and tweets at @zugzwanged.

阿拉斯泰尔·罗伯茨（英国杜伦大学博士），在Theopolis学院 和Davenant学院工作。他参与了Mere Fidelity和Theopolis的播客，也是Alastair's Adversaria博客共同作者，他的推特是@zugzwanged。
