Give Kids the Big Picture of Stewardship

让孩子做胸有大局的忠心管家

OCTOBER 18, 2018  |  MARGARET GIBSON
SHARE
TWEET
EMAIL
Advertise on TGC

MORE BY MARGARET GIBSON
How Do We Love the Unborn and Their Mother?

Matt and Kelly Kaye live in Memphis with their two sons, Ross and Nash. To teach Ross and Nash biblical principles of saving and giving, they created TillSOS, a wooden till that helps children manage their money by dividing it into five categories: God, Others, Savings, Spending, and Extra. Under each category, a purposeful Scripture reference is overlaid on artwork, which helps them better understand the true source of stewardship (SOS). The Kayes are hoping to share TillSOS with interested families, but must meet a production minimum through a prefunding order process in order to proceed. Their website is tillsos.com.

马特和凯莉·凯伊一家住在孟菲斯，为了教导两个儿子罗斯和纳什有关储蓄和奉献的圣经原则，他们发明了TillSOS，这是一种木制的存钱盒，把钱分成五类——上帝、他人、储蓄、消费和备用，以帮助孩子们学会管理金钱。每个分类下面都配有一段相关的圣经教导，写在堪称艺术品的盒盖上。这有助于少年人更好地理解忠心管家的真正源泉（SOS是 source of stewardship “管家的源泉”的缩写）。凯伊夫妇希望跟有兴趣的家庭一起分享TillSOS，但为了满足最低的产量要求，需要收取一定的预付款。他们的网站是tillsos.com。

I spoke with the Kayes about what they’ve learned about encouraging generosity in the next generation.

我与凯伊夫妇相谈甚欢，了解到他们培养下一代慷慨方面的经验。

Where did your passion for stewardship start?

你们对当忠心管家的热情是从那里来的？

We think it’s important to define the heart of stewardship, since it’s so much more than handling money. Stewardship is a holistic approach of managing and being responsible for all things in your care. I (Matt) am in the grocery business, and I’m charged by God to manage my business to the best of my talents while it’s in my possession. As a business owner at a young age, I quickly realized that the better a resource is stewarded, the more options I have to enjoy and share the benefits in creative ways.

我们认为忠心管家的核心定义很重要，因为它不仅是如何处理金钱。管家的工作是全面管理，是对你所关心的所有事物负责。我（马特）开了一家杂货店，上帝责成我在拥有自己的生意时，应尽我的才能来管理它。还是一个年轻创业者的时候，我很快就意识到，资源管理得越好，就可以有更多的选择去享受它，以更有创意的方式去分享利益，

As far as the passion for stewardship, it certainly took on a new meaning when we had children. We want them to understand, at a much earlier age than we did, that stewardship isn’t our obligation to God; rather it’s our heartfelt response to him.

至于对当忠心管理的热情，自打有了孩子，当然就有了新的含义。我们希望他们在比我们更年轻的时候就明白，当管家不是我们对上帝的义务，而是我们对他衷心的回应。

How did you develop an approach to stewardship with your kids?

你是如何与你的孩子一起制定管家方法的？

Our approach is still evolving, but perhaps the closest thing to a Eureka moment came over Legos. No sooner had the boys gotten another Lego set than they’d turned their eyes to the next one. It dawned on us that none of those Legos held any value, because it didn’t cost them anything.

我们的方法还在不断演进，但也许最接近恍然大悟的时刻是看到乐高积木。孩子们刚拿到一套乐高，就把目光转向了下一套。我们一下子明白了，这些乐高没有任何价值，因为花的不是孩子们的钱。

So, we didn’t tell the boys they couldn’t have any more Legos; we simply told them their parents were out of the Lego business. The goal then became to find ways to get money in their hands and coach them on how to appropriately steward it.

因此，我们没有告诉孩子们不能再拥有任何乐高；我们只是告诉他们，爸妈已经退出了乐高界。然后，我们的目标变成了想办法让他们手中攒住钱，并指导他们如何适当地管钱用钱。

We knew we had to train the boys through hands-on experience and to cultivate their hearts with teaching straight from the source of stewardship, the Bible.

我们晓得必须通过亲身体验来训练孩子们，从忠心管家的源头——圣经的教导来培养他们的心。

 【插图说明文字】最原始的钱柜

What’s the significance of the name of the product?

这个产品的名称有什么讲头？

Till is defined in three ways, each applicable to our product:

to prepare, cultivate, work
a cash drawer for handling money
a less formal way to say until
SOS is the universal call sign for help, which is relevant to the product’s purpose, and it conveniently serves as an abbreviation for the source of stewardship.

Till这个词有三种含义，每一种都能用到我们的产品上。

- 去准备、耕耘、工作
- 用于处理金钱的现金抽屉
- 直到

SOS既是通用的求救信号，这与产品的目的有关，又是“管家的源泉”的缩写。


How did you pick the biblical passages you associate with each area of stewardship? How do they play into your routine? 

你怎样挑选与忠心管家每个领域相关的经文？它们如何融入你们的日常生活？

Attempting to incorporate biblical scripture

【插图说明文字】尝试把经文结合进来

We have five categories—God, Others, Savings, Spending, and Extra—and we select verses that go with those categories and hopefully stir the heart. When the heart isn’t in it, we tend to slide down the slippery slope of legalism and self-justification.

我们有五大类别——上帝、他人、储蓄、消费和备用，我们选择与这些类别相关的经文，希望激动人们的心。如果不是从心底出发，我们往往会滑向律法主义和自义。


We try to encourage generosity and some sacrifice. On payday we sit down; the boys say the category and read the verse out loud. Then they calculate the amount that goes into that category based on a predetermined percentage, which is paid, and then they slide their money into the till slot. This is repeated for each category. At the end, they take their God money and place it in their Bible for church.

我们试图鼓励慷慨和牺牲。在发薪日，我们坐下来；男孩们说出五大类别并大声读出经文。然后，他们根据事先确定的百分比算出归入该类别的金额，等支付后，他们将钱滑入收钱箱的插槽。每个类别都要重复这个过程。最后，拿出属于上帝的钱，放进他们去教会时带的圣经里。

For Others, money is used for any variety of things: hurricane relief, the Salvation Army, supporting missionaries, and so on.

属于“他人”的钱用来做各种善事：飓风救援、救世军、支持宣教事工等等。

For Savings, we opened passbook savings accounts so they fill out deposit slips and go to the bank. We said this money is off limits until they’re 21.

属于“储蓄”的钱，我们专门开设了存折储蓄账户，因此，他们由填写存款单并去银行。我们说这些钱“直到”他们21岁时才能用。

Spending is for current and future spending. This money is completely at their discretion.

“支出”的钱用于当前和未来的消费。这笔钱怎么花完全由他们自己决定。

Extra is simply a rainy-day fund, which they can draw on if they’re low in one area.

“备用”的钱只是未雨绸缪的应急基金，如果他们在某方面的资金不足，可以动用。

In the beginning, we set the baseline percentages for each category. Since then, we let the boys choose percentage allocations that hold firm for one year. This has been a routine for us for nearly six years.

一开始，我们为每个类别设定了基准百分比。从那时起，我们让孩子们选择分配的百分比，保持一年不变。这已经是我们近六年来的惯例。

What’s your advice to families with young children who want to shape habits of giving, spending, and saving?  

有些家庭孩子还小，他们想塑造孩子们奉献、支出和储蓄的习惯，对此你有什么建议？ 

Beginning to reimagine the concept and product
The most important thing is to actually start, and do whatever you do with consistency and repetition. Begin as early as possible and understand that, while you’re sowing seeds that will bear some fruit under your roof, the primary objective is to prepare them for adulthood.

【插图说明文字】开始重新构想概念和产品

最重要的是真正开始，无论做什么都要坚持和重复。尽可能早地开始，并明白，虽然你在播种的时候，会有短期成果，但主要目的是为他们成年做准备。

For earning money, we’ve found that earning opportunities need to be creative, fun, achievable, and worthwhile.

对于挣钱，我们发现赚钱的机会需要有创意、有趣味、有价值，并且有可实现性。

For giving, consider beginning with a family-centered opportunity. One year, we made household buckets for World Relief each month.

对于捐赠，一开始要考虑以家庭为中心的机会。有一年，我们每个月都为世界救援会（World Relief）制作一批家用水桶。

For spending, it may sound counterintuitive, but the sooner children begin wasting money, the quicker they will develop an appreciation for it. They have to experience that regret on their own. On occasion, we encourage them to wait 10 days and see if they still want an item. Often, they don’t. Bottom line: don’t make spending taboo, but try and minimize the worldly impulsiveness of it.

对于消费，这听起来可能反直觉，但孩子们越早开始浪费钱，他们就会越快地对钱产生感激之情。他们必须自己去体验浪费带来的遗憾。有时，我们鼓励他们等待10天，看看他们是否还想要一件物品。通常情况下，他们不想要了。一句话：不要让消费成为禁忌，但要尽量减少属世界的冲动型消费。

We’ve found it’s important to distinguish between short-term and long-term savings. This distinction leads to the “would you rather” conversations about the differences between immediate and delayed gratification. Short-term savings stay in the till for their consumption in the near future. Long-term heads to the bank for adulthood.

我们发现区分短期和长期储蓄很重要。这种区分让人看到即时满足和延迟满足之间的差别，并引发了 "你是否愿意等一等 "的对话。短期储蓄留在钱柜里，供他们在不久的将来消费。长期储蓄则存在银行，供他们成年后去提取。

One of many many prototypes

【插图说明文字】众多原型机中的一个

Ross and Nash, how do you think using the TillSOS has affected the way you think about work and money? 

罗斯和纳什，你们认为使用TillSOS对你们思考工作和金钱的方式有什么影响？

Nash: One time, Dad made me go through our routine when I hadn’t earned any money that month. So saying “zero dollars times my percentages equals zero dollars” five times was really annoying, but it made me understand I hadn’t done any work, and I wasn’t getting any more money.

纳什：有一次，爸爸让我在当月没有赚到钱的情况下走完例行程序。所以，连说五次 "0美元乘以我的百分比等于0美元 "真的很烦人，但它让我明白：没做工作，就没钱拿。

Ross: We started a beehive. Dad made me get up when it was still dark and do a lot of things that weren’t fun. Also, the bee suit is really hot. My dad asked me why I thought he made me do it. I told him because it’s not all honey.

罗斯：我们从照顾蜂箱开始。天还没亮，爸爸就让我起床，干了很多不好玩的活。另外，养蜂服真的很热。我爸爸问我名不明白他让我这么做的原因，我告诉他，因为生活可并不都是蜂蜜。

From Concept to Creation. A treasured keepsake for now and a legacy for their children.

【插图说明文字】从概念到发明。现在的钱柜是一个珍贵的纪念品，为孩子们留下了宝贵的财富。

How did you decide to turn your experience into a product to share with others? 

你们是如何决定将经验变成产品与他人分享的？

I can assure you we didn’t begin with anything like that in mind. We were simply trying to teach our children about the concept of stewardship. It was actually Nash who came up with the idea of sharing with others. We’ve encouraged both boys to think creatively and entrepreneurially, so we asked them if they wanted to give it a go. They said yes.

我可以向你保证，我们一开始并没有这样的想法。我们只是想让孩子们了解忠心管家的概念。实际上，与他人共享的想法是纳什提出的。我们一直鼓励两个孩子发展创造性思维，并像企业家一样思考，所以，我们问他们是否想试一试，他们说好的。

Through continuous usage, brainstorming, many dead ends, and lots of tinkering, we slowly rounded into a product that seems to be a unique strategy to confront an age-old issue.

通过不断的试用、头脑风暴，经历了多次此路不通和大量的修修补补，我们慢慢地完善了这个产品，似乎为理财这个古老的问题找到了一个独特的解决策略。

How is your TillSOS different from other approaches to shape the financial habits of kids?

你们的TillSOS与其他塑造孩子财务习惯的方法有何不同？

Clearly, what we’re trying to tackle is nothing new. You see divided piggy banks, give/save/spend jars, envelopes, wallets, and so on. While each is well-meaning and even intentional, something was lacking, and that something was drawing a direct line to Scripture.

很明显，我们试图解决的问题并不新鲜。你可以看到各种不同的储蓄罐、捐赠/储蓄/消费罐、信封、钱包，等等。虽然每一种都有板有眼，甚至苦心孤诣，但还是缺了一点什么，那就是直接发与经文发生联系。

We overlayed Scripture onto beautiful works of art on the lids of the TillSOS, which makes for wonderful visual reminders. By using multiple lids, we keep the process fresh with new Bible verses coupled with different paintings. The lids not in use are perfect standalone art pieces that remind kids of the comprehensive nature of stewardship as well as the source of it.

TillSOS的盖子是一幅幅精美的工艺画，我们将经文加在这些画上，从而产生美妙的视觉提醒。一个钱柜，可以换多个盖子，每个盖子上的绘画和经文都不同，这让整个过程始终保持新鲜感。未使用的盖子是完美的独立艺术品，提醒孩子们完整认识忠心管家及其源头。

Another difference is that our approach is serious, while remaining age-appropriate. Last, we created a product with high-quality materials that would serve as a keepsake for our children to use with their children, as opposed to a poorly constructed, easily breakable, disposable trinket.

另一个不同之处是，我们用心在做符合这一年龄段的产品。最后，我们的产品采用了优质材料，可以让孩子们作为纪念品传给他们下一代，而不是一个结构不良、易碎、用不了几次的小玩意。

What has been the most rewarding part of the TillSOS process for you?

在设计制造TillSOS的过程中，什么让你们最有成就感？

Nash: Reading and seeing God’s Word and how it applies to so many things beyond me.

纳什：阅读和看到上帝的话，以及如何把它们用在远超过我的许多事情上。

Ross: I really like drawing, so adding the artwork helps me make it more real.

罗斯：我超喜欢画画，所以，在产品中加入绘画帮助我把它变得更真实。

Nash and Ross: It has been a little frustrating, because it has taken so long, and there have been a lot of dead ends. But seeing the final prototype was definitively exciting and rewarding.

纳什和罗斯：刚开始让人有些受挫，因为它耗费了这么长时间，而且有很多死胡同。但看到最后的原型，真令人开心，付出得到了回报。

Matt: Working and brainstorming on a real-life opportunity with the boys.

马特：与少年们一起工作，一起头脑风暴，真是一生中少有的天赐良机。

Kelly: The most rewarding part of the TillSOS process for me has been to watch my sons make the connection that all things (including money) come from the Lord and are his, and that we have the responsibility to use what we’re given for his glory and not just for ourselves. I’ve seen the transition from obedience and obligation to parents to genuine charitable giving to God and others.

凯莉：对我来说，TillSOS发明过程中最有价值的部分是看着我的儿子们建立起这样的联系：所有的东西（包括金钱）都来自于主，都是他的，我们有责任为他的荣耀而使用我们得到的东西，而不仅仅是为了自己。我已经看到了他们身上的转变，从顺服父母，到履行义务，从甘心乐意地奉献上帝，到慷慨无私地赒济他人。

For more details, visit us at tillsos.com or email info@tillsos.com.

欲了解更多详情，请访问我们的网站tillsos.com或发送电子邮件至 info@tillsos.com。

Margaret Gibson is the director of development at The Source Texas and has a passion for gospel-centered women’s healthcare and advocating for the unborn. Margaret and her husband, Mark, are new parents living in Austin, where they serve in marriage ministry and leadership development at The Austin Stone Community Church.


译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：[Give Kids the Big Picture of Stewardship](https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/give-kids-the-big-picture-of-stewardship/)

作者：玛格丽特·吉布森（Margaret Gibson）是德州源泉（The Source Texas）的发展总监，热情投入以福音为中心的妇女保健和反堕胎运动。她和丈夫马克生活在奥斯汀，刚刚为人父母。他们在奥斯汀磐石共同体教会（Austin Stone Community Church）的婚姻事工和领导力发展中有服事。

简介：通过发明一个富有创意的钱箱，凯伊一家教会了孩子们怎样做上帝的忠实管家

栏目：信仰与工作

标签：工作, 创造, 发明, 奉献
