Queen's funeral Order of Service in full - sweet nod to childhood and poignant details

The Queen will be laid to rest on Monday after services at both Westminster Abbey and St George's Chapel in Windsor - you can follow the historic events with the full order of service

Royals attend ceremony as Queen's coffin arrives in Edinburgh

NEWS

POLITICS

FOOTBALL

CELEBS

TV

MONEY

ROYALS

ByRussell MyersRoyal Editor

22:30, 18 Sep 2022UPDATED04:01, 19 Sep 2022

|

4

COMMENTS

The order of service for the Queen’s state funeral has been published for the first time, revealing a rousing selection of Her Majesty’s favourite hymns, songs, prayers and recitals, all of which were chosen by the late monarch.

The Monet by William Henry Harris will be played as a tribute to the renowned organist and composer who taught the Queen to play the piano.

Once a week at Windsor, as he led practice, Princess Elizabeth and sister Margaret would sing alongside senior members of the choir.

The Queen’s Piper, Warrant Officer Class 1 (Pipe Major) Paul Burns, will play the lament Sleep, Dearie, Sleep. It will follow the Last Post, the Reveille, and the national anthem.

Before the service, the tenor bell will toll every minute for 96 minutes, reflecting the years of the Queen’s life.

The Queen's coffin being carried into the Palace of Westminster

The Queen's coffin being carried into the Palace of Westminster ( Image: Getty Images)

The Dean of Westminster, the Very Reverend Dr David Hoyle, will say in The Bidding: “Here, where Queen Elizabeth was married and crowned, we gather from across the nation, from the Commonwealth, and from the nations of the world, to mourn our loss, to remember her long life of selfless service.”

He will speak of the Queen’s “unswerving commitment to a high calling over so many years” as Queen and Head of the Commonwealth.

“With affection we recall her love for her family and her commitment to the causes she held dear,” the Dean will say.

CHIP REVERSE MORTGAGE

Try This Reverse Mortgage Estimator (Only If You're Over 55)

GRAMMARLY

This Desktop App Helps You Write More Effectively

by TaboolaSponsored Links

Prime Minister Liz Truss will have the honour of reading the Second Lesson, from John 14:1-9a, uttering the words: “Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God.”

Royal sources said Her Majesty was keen on “showing Britain’s rich tapestry of faiths and cultures” at her funeral, inviting representatives from multiple denominations and cultures to represent the Muslim, Hindu, Jewish and Buddhist communities amoung others.

The hymns will be The Lord’s My Shepherd, I’ll Not Want; The Day Thou Gavest, Lord, Is Ended; and Love Divine, All Loves Excelling.

The latter was sung at royal weddings including William and Kate’s, Charles and Camilla’s wedding blessing, and Eugenie’s.

Prayers will be said by the Reverend Dr Iain Greenshields, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, for her “long life and reign, recalling with gratitude her gifts of wisdom, diligence, and service”.

The Bishop of London Dame Sarah Mullally will pray for “gracious Sovereign Lord King Charles, Camilla the Queen Consort, William Prince of Wales, and all the Royal Family”.

In a final tribute, the Reverend Canon Helen Cameron, Moderator of the Free Churches Group, will praise the Queen’s “unstinting devotion to duty, her compassion for her subjects, and her counsel to her ministers”.

You can follow both services with the full orders of service below

Cover of the Order of Service at Westminster Abbey

Cover of the Order of Service at Westminster Abbey

Westminster Abbey (11am)

Key details

The service is conducted by The Very Rev. Dr David Hoyle MBE, Dean of Westminster.

The service is sung by the Choir of Westminster Abbey and the Choir of the Chapel Royal, St James’s Palace, (Joseph McHardy, Director of Music) under the direction of James O’Donnell, Organist and Master of the Choristers, Westminster Abbey.

The State Trumpeters of the Household Cavalry are led by Trumpet Major Julian Sandford.

The Fanfare Team of the Household Division Bands is conducted by Lieutenant Colonel David Barringer MBE, Commanding Officer, Household Division Bands. The organ is played by Peter Holder, Sub-Organist, Westminster Abbey.

Before the service, the tenor bell is tolled every minute for 96 minutes, reflecting the years of Queen ­Elizabeth II’s life.

Members of Foreign Royal Families, Heads of State, and Overseas Government Representatives are received at the Great West Door by the Dean and Chapter of Westminster and are conducted to their seats in the Lantern. All remain seated.

The first service of the day will be at Westminster Abbey, where the Queen was crowned and got married ( Image: Getty Images)

Music before the service:

Matthew Jorysz, Assistant Organist, Westminster Abbey, plays:

■ Fantasia of four parts: Orlando Gibbons (1583–1625)

■ Romanza (Symphony no 5 in D): Ralph Vaughan Williams (1872–1958)

■ Reliqui domum meum Peter Maxwell Davies (1934–2016)

■ Meditation on ‘Brother James’s Air’ Harold Darke (1888–1976)

■ Prelude on ‘Ecce jam noctis’ Op 157 no 3 Healey Willan (1880–1968)

■ Psalm Prelude Set 1 no 2 Herbert Howells (1892–1983)

■ In the Country Op 194 no 2 Charles Villiers Stanford (1852–1924)

■ Fantasy on ‘O Paradise’ Malcolm Williamson (1931–2003)

■ Elegy Op 58 Edward Elgar (1857–1934)

The Sub-Organist plays

■ Andante espressivo (Sonata in G Op 28) Edward Elgar

■ Sospiri Op 70 Edward Elgar arranged by Peter Holder (b 1990)

The Procession of Religious Representatives moves to places in the Nave and the Sacrarium. All remain seated.

■ Mrs Marie van der Zyl – ­President, Board of Deputies of British Jews

■ Dr Shirin Fozdar-Faroudi – Representative of the Bahá’í Community

■ Mr Nemu Chandaria OBE – Representative of the Jain ­Community

■ Mr Malcolm Deboo –Representative of the Zoroastrian Community

■ The Venerable Bogoda Seelawimala – Representative of the Buddhist Community

■ The Lord Singh of Wimbledon CBE – Representative of the Sikh Community

■ Mr Rajnish Kashyap – General Secretary, Hindu Council UK

■ Mrs Aliya Azam MBE – Interfaith Co-ordinator, Al-Khoei Foundation

■ Shaykh Dr Asim Yusuf – Muslim Scholar

■ Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis –Chief Rabbi of Great Britain and the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth

REPRESENTING THE CHURCHES OF WALES

■ The Rev. Simon Walkling –President, Free Church Council of Wales

■ The Most Rev. Andrew John Archbishop of Wales

■ The Most Rev. Mark O’Toole Archbishop of Cardiff

REPRESENTING THE CHURCHES OF SCOTLAND

■ The Right Rev. Dr Iain Green-shields Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland

■ The Most Rev. Leo Cushley Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh

■ The Most Rev. Mark Strange Primus, Scottish Episcopal Church

REPRESENTING THE CHURCHES OF NORTHERN IRELAND

■ The Rev. David Nixon – President Methodist Church in Ireland

■ The Rev. Ian Brown – Lead Minister, Martyrs Memorial Free Presbyterian Church

■ The Right Rev. Dr John Kirkpatrick – Moderator, The Presbyterian Church in Ireland

■ The Most Rev. Dr Eamon Martin – Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland

■ The Most Rev. John McDowell – Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland and Metropolitan

REPRESENTING THE CHURCHES IN ENGLAND

■ Pastor Agu Irukwu – Senior Pastor, Jesus House UK

■ The Rev. Canon Helen Cameron – Moderator, Free Churches Group

■ The Rev. Canon Graham Thompson – President, Methodist Conference

■ His Eminence Cardinal Vincent Nichols – Archbishop of ­Westminster

■ Pastor Glyn Barrett – National Leader, Assemblies of God

■ Ms Shermara Fletcher – Principal Officer for Pentecostal and Charismatic Relations, Churches Together in England

■ His Eminence Archbishop Angaelos – The Coptic Church in Great Britain

■ His Eminence Archbishop Nikitas – Archbishop of Thyateira and Great Britain

Serjeant of the Vestry

■ The Very Rev. Professor David Fergusson OBE – Dean of the Thistle and of the Chapel Royal in Scotland

■ The Rev. Canon Paul Wright – Sub-Dean of His Majesty’s Chapels Royal

■ The Right Rev. and Right Honourable Dame Sarah Mullally DBE – Bishop of London and Dean of His Majesty’s Chapels Royal

■ The Right Rev. David Conner KCVO – Dean of Windsor

■ The Right Rev. James Newcome – Clerk of the Closet

■ The Right Rev. Dr John Inge – Lord High Almoner

Members of the Royal Family are received at the Great West Door by the Dean and Chapter of Westminster and are conducted to their seats in the Lantern. All remain seated. The Choir of Westminster Abbey and the Choir of the Chapel Royal, St James’s Palace, proceed to places in the Nave and in Quire. All remain seated.

Her Majesty chose many of the specific details of the service herself

Her Majesty chose many of the specific details of the service herself ( Image: PA)

DON'T MISS

The Queen arriving back in England aboard the large RAF plane

Queen's poignant response when told about plans to fly her body in military plane

Princess Charlotte during yesterday's memorial service for Prince Philip

Princess Charlotte to 'break tradition' with mourning dress at Queen's funeral

George and Charlotte going to Queen's funeral after discussing it with Kate and William

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 'ordered to apologise for Oprah comments before funeral'

Order of Service

All stand as the Procession of the Coffin enters the Abbey. The Choir of Westminster Abbey sings

THE SENTENCES

during which the Procession of the Coffin moves through the Abbey

■ I AM the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.

John 11: 25–26

■ KNOW that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God; whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another.

Job 19: 25–27

■ WE brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.

1 Timothy 6: 7; Job 1: 21

The Choir of Westminster Abbey and the Choir of the Chapel Royal, St James’s Palace, sing

■ THOU knowest, Lord, the secrets of our hearts; shut not thy merciful ears unto our prayer; but spare us, Lord most holy, O God most mighty, O holy and most merciful Saviour, thou most worthy Judge eternal, suffer us not, at our last hour, for any pains of death, to fall from thee. Amen.

The Book of Common Prayer

■ I HEARD a voice from heaven, saying unto me, Write, From henceforth blessed are the dead which die in the Lord: even so saith the Spirit; for they rest from their labours. Amen.

Revelation 14: 13

Beadle

The Choir of Westminster Abbey:

■ Mr James O’Donnell – Organist and Master of the Choristers

Pursuivants and Heralds of Arms of Scotland:

March; Falkland; Linlithgow; Unicorn; Ormond; Carrick; Rothesay; Marchmont

Pursuivants and Heralds of Arms of England:

Portcullis; Bluemantle; Rouge Dragon; Wales; Norfolk; Maltravers; Windsor; York; Richmond

Kings of Arms:

Norroy & Ulster King of Arms; Lord Lyon King of Arms; Clarenceux King of Arms; Lady Usher of the Black Rod; Garter Principal King of Arms

Household of Queen Elizabeth II:

Master of the Horse; Lord Steward; Director of the Royal Collection; Comptroller, Lord Chamberlain’s Office; Master of the Household; Keeper of the Privy Purse; Private Secretary; The Queen’s Page; The Queen’s Page Palace Steward

Bells will ring 96 times before the Westminster Abbey service - once for every year of the Queen's life

Bells will ring 96 times before the Westminster Abbey service - once for every year of the Queen's life ( Image: Getty Images)

The King’s Almsmen

■ Primatial Cross of York – The Most Rev. and Right Honourable Stephen Cottrell Archbishop of York, Primate of England and Metropolitan

■ Primatial Cross of Canterbury – The Most Rev. and Right ­Honourable Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of All England and Metropolitan

■ The Cross of Westminster & Lights – The Rev. Robert Latham, Minor Canon & Sacrist; The Rev. Mark Birch, Minor Canon & Precentor; Mr Paul Baumann CBE – Receiver General; Sir Kenneth Olisa OBE – High Bailiff of Westminster

■ The Venerable Tricia Hillas – Canon Steward and Archdeacon of Westminster; The Right Rev. Anthony Ball – Canon of Westminster and Rector of St Margaret’s Church; The Rev. Dr James Hawkey – Canon Theologian and Almoner; The Rev. David Stanton – Sub-Dean and Canon Treasurer

The Very Rev. Dr David Hoyle MBE – Dean of Westminster

PALL BEARERS

■ Lord Chamberlain

■ Earl Marshal

HER MAJESTY’S COFFINsurmounted by The Imperial State Crown, The Orb & The Sceptre and borne by the Bearer Party

■ The Queen Consort

■ THE KING

■ Vice Admiral Sir Tim Laurence

■ The Princess Royal

■ The Duke of York

■ The Countess of Wessex & Forfar

■ The Earl of Wessex & Forfar

■ The Princess of Wales

■ The Prince of Wales

■ Princess Charlotte of Wales

■ Prince George of Wales

■ The Duchess of Sussex

■ The Duke of Sussex

■ The Earl of Snowdon

■ Mr Peter Phillips

■ The Duke of Gloucester

■ Prince Michael of Kent

■ The Duke of Kent

Members of the Royal Family will walk behind the Queen's coffin again

Members of the Royal Family will walk behind the Queen's coffin again ( Image: Getty Images)

HOUSEHOLD OF THE FORMER PRINCE OF WALES AND DUCHESS OF CORNWALL:

Private Secretary; Principal Private Secretary; Equerry; Master of the Household

HOUSEHOLD OF THE PRINCE AND ­PRINCESS OF WALES:

Equerry

All remain standing. The Very Rev. Dr David Hoyle MBE, Dean of Westminster, gives

THE BIDDING

IN grief and also in profound thanksgiving we come to this House of God, to a place of prayer, to a church where remembrance and hope are sacred duties. Here, where Queen Elizabeth was married and crowned, we gather from across the nation, from the Commonwealth, and from the nations of the world, to mourn our loss, to remember her long life of selfless service, and in sure confidence to commit her to the mercy of God our maker and redeemer.

With gratitude we remember her unswerving commitment to a high calling over so many years as Queen and Head of the Commonwealth. With admiration we recall her life-long sense of duty and dedication to her people.

With thanksgiving we praise God for her constant example of Christian faith and devotion.

With affection we recall her love for her family and her commitment to the causes she held dear.

Now, in silence, let us in our hearts and minds recall our many reasons for thanksgiving, pray for all members of her family, and commend Queen Elizabeth to the care and keeping of almighty God.

A brief silence is kept.

OMERCIFUL God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is the resurrection and the life; in whom whosoever believeth shall live, though he die; and whosoever liveth, and believeth in him, shall not die eternally; who hast taught us, by his holy Apostle Saint Paul, not to be sorry, as men without hope, for them that sleep in him: We meekly beseech thee, O Father, to raise us from the death of sin unto the life of righteousness; that, when we shall depart this life, we may rest in him, as our hope is this our sister doth; and that, at the general Resurrection in the last day, we may be found acceptable in thy sight; and receive that blessing, which thy well-beloved Son shall then pronounce to all that love and fear thee, saying, Come, ye blessed children of my Father, receive the kingdom prepared for you from the beginning of the world. Grant this, we beseech thee, O merciful Father, through Jesus Christ, our mediator and redeemer. Amen.

All sing

THE HYMN

THE day thou gavest, Lord, is ended, the darkness falls at thy behest; to thee our morning hymns ascended, thy praise shall sanctify our rest.

We thank thee that thy Church unsleeping, while earth rolls onward into light, through all the world her watch is keeping, and rests not now by day or night.

As o’er each continent and island the dawn leads on another day, the voice of prayer is never silent, nor dies the strain of praise away.

The sun that bids us rest is waking our brethren ’neath the western sky, and hour by hour fresh lips are making thy wondrous doings heard on high.

So be it, Lord; thy throne shall never, like earth’s proud empires, pass away; thy kingdom stands, and grows for ever, till all thy creatures own thy sway.

The Queen's body has been lying in state at Westminster Hall for four days

The Queen's body has been lying in state at Westminster Hall for four days ( Image: Getty Images)

John Ellerton (1826–93)

St Clement Clement Scholefield (1839–1904) arranged by James O’Donnell (b 1961)

All sit. The Right Honourable the Baroness Scotland of Asthal KC, Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, reads

THE FIRST LESSON

NOW is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ’s at his coming. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labour is not in vain in the Lord.

1 Corinthians 15: 20–26, 53–end

Thanks be to God.

All remain seated. The choir sings

THE PSALM

LIKE as the hart desireth the water-brooks: so longeth my soul after thee, O God. My soul is athirst for God, yea, even for the living God: when shall I come to appear before the presence of God?

My tears have been my meat day and night: while they daily say unto me, Where is now thy God?

Now when I think thereupon, I pour out my heart by myself: for I went with the multitude, and brought them forth into the house of God;

In the voice of praise and thanksgiving: among such as keep holy-day. Why art thou so full of heaviness, O my soul: and why art thou so disquieted within me?

Put thy trust in God: for I will yet give him thanks for the help of his countenance.

Psalm 42: 1–7

composed for this ServiceJudith Weir CBE (b 1954)

New Prime Minister Liz Truss has the honour of giving a reading

New Prime Minister Liz Truss has the honour of giving a reading ( Image: PA)

The Right Honourable Elizabeth Truss MP, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, reads

THE SECOND LESSON

LET not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father.

John 14: 1–9a

Thanks be to God.

All stand to sing

THE HYMN

THE Lord’s my shepherd, I’ll not want; he makes me down to lie in pastures green; he leadeth me the quiet waters by.

My soul he doth restore again, and me to walk doth make within the paths of righteousness, e’en for his own name’s sake.

The choir sings

Yea, though I walk through death’s dark vale, yet will I fear none ill; for thou art with me, and thy rod and staff me comfort still.

All sing

My table thou hast furnishèd in presence of my foes; my head thou dost with oil anoint, and my cup overflows.

Goodness and mercy all my life shall surely follow me; and in God’s house for evermore my dwelling place shall be.

Psalm 23

Crimond attributed to Jessie Seymour Irvine (1836–87) in Scottish Psalter 1650 harmony by David Grant (1833–93) descant by William Baird Ross (1871–1950)

THE SERMON

The Most Rev. and Right Honourable Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of All England and Metropolitan

All remain seated. The choir sings

THE ANTHEM

MY soul, there is a country Far beyond the stars, Where stands a wingèd sentry All skilful in the wars: There above noise, and danger, Sweet Peace sits crowned with smiles, And One born in a manger Commands the beauteous files.

He is thy gracious friend, And (O my soul, awake!) Did in pure love descend, To die here for thy sake.

If thou canst get but thither, There grows the flower of Peace, The Rose that cannot wither, Thy fortress, and thy ease.

Leave then thy foolish ranges, For none can thee secure, But One who never changes, Thy God, thy Life, thy Cure.

Henry Vaughan (1621–95)

from Songs of Farewell Hubert Parry (1848–1918)

The Rev. Mark Birch, Minor Canon and Precentor, leads

THE PRAYERS

In confidence and trust, let us pray to the Father.

All kneel or remain seated.

The Rev. Dr Iain Greenshields, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, says

Let us give thanks to God for Queen Elizabeth’s long life and reign, recalling with gratitude her gifts of wisdom, diligence, and service.

■ O GOD, from whom cometh everything that is upright and true: accept our thanks for the gifts of heart and mind that thou didst bestow upon thy daughter Elizabeth, and which she showed forth among us in her words and deeds; and grant that we may have grace to live our lives in accordance with thy will, to seek the good of others, and to remain faithful servants unto our lives’ end; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

Ms Shermara Fletcher, Principal Officer for Pentecostal and Charismatic Relations, Churches Together in England, says

Confident in God’s love and compassion, let us pray for all those whose hearts are heavy with grief and sorrow.

■ ALMIGHTY God, Father of all mercies and giver of all comfort: deal graciously, we pray thee, with those who mourn, that casting every care on thee, they may know the consolation of thy love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Right Rev. and Right Honourable Dame Sarah Mullally DBE, Bishop of London and Dean of His Majesty’s Chapels Royal, says

Let us pray for His Majesty The King and all the Royal Family; that they may know the sustaining power of God’s love and the prayerful fellowship of God’s people.

■ ALMIGHTY God, the fountain of all goodness, we humbly beseech thee to bless our most gracious Sovereign Lord King Charles, Camilla The Queen Consort, William Prince of Wales, and all the Royal Family: endue them with thy Holy Spirit, enrich them with thy heavenly grace; prosper them with all happiness; and bring them to thine everlasting kingdom; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Rev. Canon Helen Cameron, Moderator of the Free Churches Group, says

In recognition of Queen Elizabeth’s service to this United Kingdom, let us rejoice in her unstinting devotion to duty, her compassion for her subjects, and her counsel to her ministers; and we pray for the continued health and prosperity of this Nation.

■ ALMIGHTY God, whose will it is that all thy children should serve thee in serving one another: look with love, we pray thee, on this Nation. Grant to its citizens grace to work together with honest and faithful hearts, each caring for the good of all; that, seeking first thy kingdom and its righteousness, they may possess all things needful for their daily sustenance and the common good; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

His Eminence Cardinal Vincent Nichols, Archbishop of Westminster, says

Let us give thanks for Queen Elizabeth’s commitment to the Commonwealth throughout her reign, for her service and dedication to its peoples, and for the rich bonds of unity and mutual support she sustained.

■ O ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, hear our prayer for the Commonwealth, and grant it the guidance of thy wisdom. Inspire those in authority, that they may promote justice and the common good; give to all its citizens the spirit of mutual honour and respect; and grant to us all grace to strive for the establishment of righteousness and peace; for the honour of thy name. Amen.

The Most Rev. and Right Honourable Stephen Cottrell, Archbishop of York, Primate of England and Metropolitan, says

We give thanks to God for Queen Elizabeth’s loyalty to the faith she inherited through her baptism and confirmation, and affirmed at her coronation; for her unswerving devotion to the Gospel; and for her steadfast service as Supreme Governor of the Church of England.

■ LORD, we beseech thee to keep thy household the Church in continual godliness; that through thy protection she may be free from all adversities, and devoutly given to serve thee in all good works, to the glory of thy name; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Precentor says

Let us pray that we may be given grace to live as those who believe in the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, and the resurrection to eternal life.

■ BRING us, O Lord God, at our last awakening into the house and gate of heaven, to enter into that gate and dwell in that house, where there shall be no darkness nor dazzling, but one equal light; no noise nor silence, but one equal music; no fears nor hopes, but one equal possession; no ends nor beginnings, but one equal eternity; in the habitation of thy glory and dominion, world without end. Amen.

John Donne (1572–1631)

The choir sings

O TASTE and see how gracious the Lord is: blest is the man that trusteth in him.

Ralph Vaughan Williams

Psalm 34: 8 composed for the Coronation of Queen

Elizabeth II, 1953

The Precentor concludes

In confidence and hope, let us pray to the Father in the words our Saviour taught us,

■ OUR Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done; on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.

All stand to sing

THE HYMN

LOVE divine, all loves excelling, joy of heaven, to earth come down, fix in us thy humble dwelling, all thy faithful mercies crown. Jesus, thou art all compassion, pure unbounded love thou art; visit us with thy salvation, enter every trembling heart.

Come, almighty to deliver, let us all thy life receive; suddenly return, and never, never more thy temples leave. Thee we would be always blessing, serve thee as thy hosts above, pray, and praise thee, without ceasing, glory in thy perfect love.

Finish then thy new creation, pure and spotless let us be; let us see thy great salvation, perfectly restored in thee, changed from glory into glory till in heaven we take our place, till we cast our crowns before thee, lost in wonder, love, and praise!

Blaenwern Charles Wesley (1707–88) William Rowlands (1860–1937)

arranged by James O’Donnell

All remain standing for

THE COMMENDATION

The Archbishop of Canterbury says

■ Let us commend to the mercy of God, our maker and redeemer, the soul of Elizabeth, our late Queen.

■ HEAVENLY Father, King of kings, Lord and giver of life, who of thy grace in creation didst form mankind in thine own image, and in thy great love offerest us life eternal in Christ Jesus; claiming the promises of thy most blessed Son, we entrust the soul of Elizabeth, our sister here departed, to thy merciful keeping, in sure and certain hope of the resurrection to eternal life, when Christ shall be all in all; who died and rose again to save us, and now liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, in glory for ever. Amen.

■ GO forth, O Christian soul, from this world, in the name of God the Father almighty, who created thee; in the name of Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who suffered for thee; in the name of the Holy Spirit, who was poured out upon thee and anointed thee. In communion with all the blessed saints, and aided by the angels and archangels and all the armies of the heavenly host, may thy portion this day be in peace, and thy dwelling in the heavenly Jerusalem. Amen.

All remain standing. The choir sings

THE ANTHEM

WHO shall separate us from the love of Christ? Neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Alleluia! Amen.

Sir James MacMillan CBE (b 1959)

Romans 8: 35a, 38b–end composed for this Service

The Dean pronounces

THE BLESSING

GOD grant to the living grace; to the departed rest; to the Church, The King, the Commonwealth, and all people, peace and concord, and to us sinners, life everlasting; and the blessing of God almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, be among you and remain with you always. Amen.

All remain standing for

THE LAST POST

Silence is kept.

REVEILLE

All sing

THE NATIONAL ANTHEM

GOD save our gracious King, long live our noble King,

God save The King. Send him victorious, happy and glorious, long to reign over us: God save The King.

Thy choicest gifts in store on him be pleased to pour, long may he reign.

May he defend our laws, and ever give us cause to sing with heart and voice: God save The King!

arranged by Gordon Jacob(1895–1984)

All remain standing.

The Queen’s Piper, Warrant Officer Class 1 (Pipe Major) Paul Burns, plays Sleep, dearie, sleep traditional

All remain standing as the Coffin and Processions leave the church.

The Sub-Organist plays

Fantasia in C minor BWV 562

Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750)

Prince George and Princess of Charlotte are surprise additions to the royal party

Prince George and Princess of Charlotte are surprise additions to the royal party ( Image: Getty Images)

THE PROCESSION OF

THE COFFIN

■ The Queen Consort

■ THE KING

■ Vice Admiral Sir Tim Laurence

■ The Princess Royal

■ The Duke of York

■ TheCountessofWessex&Forfar

■ The Earl of Wessex & Forfar

■ The Princess of Wales

■ The Prince of Wales

■ Princess Charlotte of Wales

■ Prince George of Wales

■ The Duchess of Sussex

■ The Duke of Sussex

■ The Earl of Snowdon

■ Mr Peter Phillips

■ The Duke of Gloucester

■ Prince Michael of Kent

■ The Duke of Kent

Music after the service:

Allegro maestoso (Sonata in G Op 28) Edward Elgar

Later in the afternoon, the bells of the Abbey are rung fully-muffled by the Westminster Abbey Company of Ringers in a peal of Stedman Caters, comprising 5096 change.

-------------

St George's Chapel (4pm)

The Queen will be laid to rest at St George's Chapel at Windsor

The Queen will be laid to rest at St George's Chapel at Windsor ( Image: Getty Images)

Beforehand and details

Before the Service the organ will be played by the Organ Scholar, Miss Miriam Reveley. Thereafter the Assistant Director of Music,Mr. Luke Bond, will play:

■ Schmücke dich, O liebe Seele (BWV 654): Johann Sebastian Bach ■ O Traurigkeit, O Herzeleid: Dame Ethel Smyth ■ Master Tallis’s Testament: Herbert Howells ■ Psalm Prelude Set 1,No. 1: Herbert Howells ■ Psalm Prelude Set 1,No. 2: Herbert Howells ■ Melody (Three Pieces): Samuel Coleridge-Taylor ■ Andante Sostenuto (Symphonie Gothique, Op. 70): Charles-MarieWidor ■ The Tree of Peace: JudithWeir ■ Nimrod (Variations On An Original Theme, Op.36): Sir Edward Elgar ■ Prelude: Sir William H. Harris (1883–1973) ■ Sheep May Safely Graze: (BWV 208) Johann Sebastian Bach ■ Rhosymedre: Ralph Vaughan Williams

The Service is led by The Right Rev. David Conner, KCVO, Dean of Windsor. The Blessing will be pronounced by The Most Rev. and The Right Honourable Justin Welby, Lord Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of All England and Metropolitan.

At 3.45 pm all stand as the Director of Music, the Choir of St George’s Chapel and the Succentor move from the North Quire Aisle to their places in the Quire.All then sit.

At 3.53 pmThe State Hearse halts at the bottom of the West Steps.

At 4.00 pm the Coffin Procession enters the Chapel:

Gentleman Ushers

Officers of Arms

Household of Queen Elizabeth II

HER MAJESTY’S COFFIN

surmounted by The Imperial State Crown, The Orb andThe Sceptre borne by the Bearer Party preceded by the Pall Bearers (Service Equerries to The Queen)

Order of Service

All stand as the Coffin passes through the West Door and moves to the Quire as the Choir sings

PSALM 121

I WILL lift up mine eyes unto the hills: from whence cometh my help.

My help cometh even from the Lord: who hath made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: and he that keepeth thee will not sleep.

The chapel is where Harry and Meghan got married in 2018 and hosted Prince Philip's funeral last year

The chapel is where Harry and Meghan got married in 2018 and hosted Prince Philip's funeral last year ( Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

Behold, he that keepeth Israel: shall neither slumber nor sleep.

The Lord himself is thy keeper: the Lord is thy defence upon thy right hand; So that the sun shall not burn thee by day: neither the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: yea, it is even he that shall keep thy soul.

The Lord shall preserve thy going out, and thy coming in: from this time forth for evermore. Glory be to the Father: and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost; As it was in the beg inning, is now, and ever shall be: world without end. Amen.

Music: Sir HenryWalford Davies, KCVO, OBE (1869–1941)

All then sit as the Choir sings

THE RUSSIAN CONTAKION OF THE DEPARTED

GIVE rest, O Christ, to thy servant with thy Saints:

where sorrow and pain are no more; neither sighing but life everlasting. Thou only art immortal, the Creator and Maker of man:

And we are mortal, formed of the earth, and unto earth shall we return: For so thou didst ordain, when thou createdst me, saying,

Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

All we go down to the dust; and, weeping o’er the grave we make our song: Alleluya, alleluya, alleluya.

Give rest, O Christ, to thy servant with thy Saints: Where sorrow and pain are no more; neither sighing but life everlasting.

All stand as the Dean of Windsor says

THE BIDDING

WE have come together to commit into the hands of God the soul of his servant Queen Elizabeth. Here, in St George’s Chapel, where she so often worshipped, we are bound to call to mind someone whose uncomplicated yet profound Christian Faith bore so much fruit. Fruit, in a life of unstinting service to the Nation, the Commonwealth and the wider world, but also (and especially to be remembered in this place) in kindness, concern and reassuring care for her family and friends and neighbours. In the midst of our rapidly changing and frequently troubled world, her calm and dignified presence has given us confidence to face the future, as she did, with courage and with hope. As, with grateful hearts, we reflect on these and all the many other ways in which her long life has been a blessing to us, we pray that God will give us grace to honour her memory by following her example, and that, with our sister Elizabeth, at the last, we shall know the joys of life eternal.

All remain standing.

THE HYMN

ALL my hope on God is founded; He doth still my trust renew. Me through change and chance he guideth, Only good and only true. God unknown, He alone Calls my heart to be his own.

God’s great goodness aye endureth, Deep his wisdom, passing thought: Splendour, light and life attend him, Beauty springeth out of naught. Evermore From his store New-born worlds rise and adore.

Daily doth th’Almighty giver Bounteous gifts on us bestow; His desire our soul delighteth, Pleasure leads us where we go. Love doth stand At his hand; Joy doth wait on his command.

Still from man to God eternal Sacrifice of praise be done, High above all praises praising For the gift of Christ his Son. Christ doth call One and all: Ye who follow shall not fall.

Words: Robert Bridges, OM (1844–1930) based on the German of Joachim Neander (1650–80)

Music:‘MICHAEL’ Herbert Howells, CH, CBE (1892–1983)

All sit.

THE READING

Revelation 21.1–7

Read by the Dean of Windsor, Register of the Most Noble Order of the Garter

I SAW a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea. And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes;and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me,Write: for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things;and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.

All kneel or sit.

THE PRAYERS

Read by the Rector of Sandringham, the Minister of Crathie Kirk and the Chaplain of the Royal Chapel,Windsor Great Park.

■ REMEMBER, O Lord, thy servant Elizabeth who has gone before us with the sign of faith, and now rests in sleep.According to thy promises, grant unto her, and to all who repose in Christ, refreshment, light and peace; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

■ MERCIFUL Father and Lord of all life, we praise thee that thou hast made us in thine image and that we reflect thy truth and light.We give special thanks for the life of thy daughter Elizabeth, for the mercy she received from thee, and for the example that through her life of service, love and faith, she has set before our eyes. Above all, we rejoice at thy gracious promise to all thy servants, living and departed, that we shall rise again at the coming of our Saviour Jesus Christ. We pray that, in due time, we may share with our sister that clearer vision when we shall see thy face in the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

■ O FATHER of all, we pray to thee for those whom we love, but see no longer. Grant them peace; let light perpetual shine upon them; and, in thy loving wisdom and almighty power, work in them the good purposes of thy perfect will; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

■ O LORD, support us all the day long of this troublous life, until the shades lengthen and the evening comes, the busy world is hushed, the fever of life is over and our work is done; then Lord, in thy mercy, grant us safe lodging,a holy rest, and peace at the last; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

■ LORD God Almighty, King of creation, bless our King and all Members of the Royal Family. May godliness be their guidance, may sanctity be their strength, may peace on earth be the fruit of their labours, and their joy in heaven thine eternal gift; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

■ GOD save our gracious Sovereign and all the Companions, living and departed, of the Most Honourable and Noble Order of the Garter. Amen.

All say together

THE LORD’S PRAYER

OUR Father, which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name; Thy kingdom come; Thy will be done; In earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive them that trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom,The power, and the glory, For ever and ever. Amen.

All sit as the Choir sings

THE MOTET

BRING us, O Lord God, at our last awakening into the house and gate of heaven, to enter into that gate and dwell in that house, where there shall be no darkness nor dazzling, but one equal light; no noise nor silence, but one equal music; no fears nor hopes, but one equal possession; no ends nor beginnings, but one equal eternity; in the habitation of thy glory and dominion, world without end. Amen.

Words: John Donne, Music: SirWilliam Henry Harris, KCVO)

All stand for the presentation, in silence, of the Instruments of State, to be received by the Dean of Windsor,from the Queen’s Bargemaster and a Serjeant of Arms, who places them on the High Altar.

All remain standing.

THE HYMN

CHRIST is made the sure foundation, And the precious corner-stone, Who, the two walls underlying, Bound in each, binds both in one, Holy Sion’s help for ever, And her confidence alone.

To this temple, where we call thee, Come, O Lord of hosts, today; With thy wonted loving-kindness, Hear thy people as they pray; And thy fullest benediction Shed within its walls for ay.

Here vouchsafe to all thy servants Gifts of grace by prayer to gain; Here to have and hold for ever, Those good things their prayers obtain, And hereafter, in thy glory, With thy blessèd ones to reign.

Laud and honour to the Father, Laud and honour to the Son, Laud and honour to the Spirit, EverThree and ever One, One in love, and One in splendour, While unending ages run. Amen.

Words: Latin 7th century Music:‘WESTMINSTER ABBEY’Adapted from Translated John M.Neale (1818-66) the Alleluyas in Purcell’s‘0 God,Thou art my God’ for BELVILLE inThe Psalmist 1843

At the end of the hymn,The Queen’s Company Camp Colour is placed on the Coffin byThe King having received it from the Regimental Lieutenant Colonel Grenadier Guards.

The Lord Chamberlain breaks his Wand which is placed upon the Coffin. All remain standing.

The Queen will be laid to rest with her beloved Philip

The Queen will be laid to rest with her beloved Philip ( Image: CAMERA PRESS/Matt Holyoak)

THE COMMITTAL

As the Coffin is lowered the Dean of Windsor says

THE PSALM

103. 13–17

LIKE as a father pitieth his own children: even so is the Lord merciful unto them that fear him. For he knoweth whereof we are made: he remembereth that we are but dust. The days of man are but as grass: for he flourisheth as a flower of the field. For as soon as the wind goeth over it, it is gone: and the place thereof shall know it no more. But the merciful goodness of the Lord endureth for ever and ever upon them that fear him: and his righteousness upon children’s children.

The Dean continues

GO forth upon thy journey from this world, O Christian soul; In the name of God the Father Almighty who created thee; In the name of Jesus Christ who suffered for thee; In the name of the Holy Spirit who strengtheneth thee. In communion with the blessèd saints, and aided by Angels and Archangels, and all the armies of the heavenly host, may thy portion this day be in peace, and thy dwelling in the heavenly Jerusalem. Amen.

All remain standing.

Garter King of Arms proclaims

THE STYLES AND TITLES OF QUEEN ELIZABETH II

THUS it hath pleased Almighty God to take out of this transitory life unto His Divine Mercy the late Most High, Most Mighty, and Most Excellent Monarch, Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of Her other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith, and Sovereign of the Most Noble Order of the Garter.

The Queen’s Piper plays a lament from the North Quire Aisle. A Salute to the Royal Fendersmith, Pipe Major James M. Banks

LET us humbly beseech Almighty God to bless with long life, health and honour,

and all worldly happiness the Most High, Most Mighty and Most Excellent Monarch, our Sovereign Lord, now, by the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of His other Realms and Territories King, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith,and Sovereign of the Most Noble Order of the Garter. GOD SAVE THE KING

All remain standing as the Archbishop of Canterbury pronounces

THE BLESSING

GO forth into the world in peace; Be of good courage, hold fast that which is good, render to no one evil for evil; strengthen the fainthearted, support the weak, help the afflicted, honour all people, love and serve the Lord, rejoicing in the power of the Holy Spirit; And the blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit be among you and remain with you always. Amen.

All remain standing.

THE NATIONAL ANTHEM

SIMILAR ARTICLES TO THIS

partner logo

POWERED BY

THE VOLUNTARY

Prelude and Fugue in C minor (BWV 546) Johann Sebastian Bach

All remain standing as The King and The Queen Consort, preceded by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Archbishop of York and accompanied by the Dean of Windsor, move to the Galilee Porch. At the Galilee Porch the Archbishop of York,the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Dean of Windsor take their leave.