How COVID Has Affected Our Friendships—and What to Do About It

COVID 瘟疫如何影响我们的友谊——以及解决之道

The day after the 2020 election, I woke up early, quickly checked the news (no winner had been announced yet), and took off for a socially distanced ride with my cycling team. We finished our loop at a local donut shop, and I sat on the front porch with a teammate—six feet apart, of course. In a sense, we couldn’t be more different: We belong to different age group, hold different perspectives on religion, and had voted for different candidates (yep, we even talked about that).

2020 年大选后的第二天，我早早起床，快速查看了新闻（当时还没有宣布谁胜选），然后和我的自行车队一起参加保持社交距离的骑行。我们在当地的一家甜甜圈店骑完了最后一圈，我和一个队友坐在前廊上，当然相隔六英尺。从某种意义上说，我们之间有太多不同了：我们属于不同的年龄组，对宗教持有不同的观点，并为不同的候选人投票（是的，我们甚至聊到了这一点）。

As we sat there with our hot coffee and craft donuts, I said something to the effect of a Tim Keller quotation on church planting: “Well, I’m starting to think everyone here has gone crazy but us—and to be honest, I’m not so sure about you anymore.” We laughed about the election, gave our predictions on how the state counts would come in, and tried to figure out how our country might come back from this level of division. We didn’t solve our national crisis that morning.

我们端着热咖啡和手工甜甜圈坐在那里，我复述了一些蒂姆·凯勒关于植堂的名言：“好吧，我开始觉得除了我们，这里的每个人都疯了。说实话，我也不太确定你疯不疯。”我们笑着谈论选举，预测各州的统计结果，并试图找出办法，让我们国家从这种高度分裂中恢复过来。那天早上，我们并没有解决我们的国家危机。

But then again, maybe we did. Or, at least, we took a step in the right direction.

但话说回来，也许我们解决了。或者，至少，我们朝着正确的方向上迈出了一步。

Another Pandemic
Before COVID, we were already facing an epidemic of loneliness in America. As I wrote in 2018, social isolation has become the functional status of American life, and loneliness has made a profound and tragic impression on our mental health, physical well-being, and community life. And that was before we were all locked in our homes indefinitely.

另一种大流行病

在 COVID 瘟疫之前，孤独的流行病已经在美国蔓延。正如我在 2018 年写的那样，社会隔离已经成为美国生活的运作状态，孤独已经对我们的心理健康、身体健康和社区生活产生了深刻而悲惨的影响。而这还是在我们都被无限期锁在家里之前。

Last year, the cure for one pandemic only deepened another one. The antidote to the COVID pandemic—social isolation and distancing—has exacerbated what the former surgeon general called “the epidemic of loneliness.”

去年，对一种流行病的治疗只是加剧了另一种流行病。COVID 大流行病的解药——社会隔离和疏远——加剧了卸任的美国卫生总监所说的“孤独的流行病”。

Last year, the cure for one pandemic only deepened another one.

去年，对一种流行病的治疗只是加剧了另一种流行病。

The primary tragedies of COVID are well-known. We’ve lost loved ones: In the U.S. alone, more than 750,000 deaths have been attributed to COVID-19. The pandemic has disproportionately hurt people of color, lower-income individuals, and the elderly. And the long-term health factors associated with COVID-19 are not yet fully known. We’re not yet living in a post-COVID world, and in a sense, we never will be. (Perhaps we might call this, with a crumb of hope, the late COVID era.)

COVID 瘟疫带来的主要悲剧是众所周知的。人们失去了所爱的人。仅在美国，COVID-19 已经造成了超过 75 万人死亡。这场大流行病对有色人种、低收入者和老年人的伤害尤其大。而且，COVID-19 对于健康的长期影响还不完全清楚。我们还没有生活在一个后 COVID 时代，从某种意义上说，我们永远不会。(也许我们可以带着一丝希望将其称为晚期 COVID 时代）。

In the midst of all these massive and somewhat measurable tragedies, the effects on our relationships, friendships, and communities have been incalculable. How do we begin to understand the personal, relational, and spiritual damage that the pandemic has caused? And what can be done about it?

这场大悲剧的破坏力在某种程度上是可以衡量的，但对我们的关系、友谊和共同体的影响则是不可估量的。我们如何理解这一大流行病所造成的个人、关系和精神上的损害？又能做些什么呢？

Here’s my thesis: Americans’ already-weak middle-ring relationships, especially friendships, have been significantly diminished since March 2020, and they’ve mostly been replaced by screen time and faction friendships, which have pushed us to further polarization—in the broader society as well as the church. To push back against this trend, believers and churches must together create new rhythms of discipleship, patterned after the earthly life of Jesus, to restore friendships and promote the renewal of our communities.

我的论点是这样的：美国人的中圈关系（译者注： 下文会有解释）已经很薄弱了，特别是友谊，自 2020 年 3 月以来更是明显被淡化，并且大多被屏幕交流和拉帮结派所取代，这使我们在社会和教会中进一步走向两极分化。为了反击这一趋势，基督徒和教会必须共创新的门训节奏，以耶稣在世的生活为典范，恢复友谊，促进我们共同体的更新。

How the Pandemic Reshaped Our Daily Lives
To begin, let’s consider the significant ways in which COVID changed how we use our time. A study for The New York Times showed (not surprisingly) dramatic movements toward social isolation in the eight months of May through December 2020. (No data were collected from mid-March through mid-May because of the pandemic.)

大流行病如何重塑我们的日常生活
首先，让我们考虑一下 COVID 显著改变我们利用时间的方式。《纽约时报》的一项研究显示，在 2020 年 5 月至 12 月的 8 个月中，社会隔离的趋势非常明显（这并不让人吃惊）。(由于大流行病，没有收集 3 月中旬至 5 月中旬的数据）。

The average American’s time spent with people outside the household dropped by a full hour—which, over eight months, amounts to about 244 fewer hours spent in relationships in 2020 versus 2019.

美国人与家庭以外的人相处的时间平均减少了整整一小时--在上述八个月中，人们在关系中花费的时间环比减少了约 244 小时。

So where did that time go instead? Although there were segments who spent much more time with family members—parents of young children especially—the biggest changes in time use were digital. The pandemic saw increases in our texting, phone calls, video conferencing, TV streaming, computer use, and video games. Not including work and school time, the average American increased daily screen time by about 60 minutes.

那么这些时间都到哪儿去了？尽管有些人花了更多的时间与家人在一起，特别是幼童的父母，但时间使用变化最大是数字化。在这场大流行中，我们短信、电话、视频会议、电视流媒体、电脑使用和视频游戏都有所增加。不包括工作和上学的时间，美国人平均每天使用屏幕的时间增加了约 60 分钟。

When we put these two trends together (and assume March and April 2020 were at least as isolated for most Americans), we discover this: In 2020, the average American traded 300 hours of in-person time with friends, church members, and neighbors for 300 hours of social media, TV, and internet reading.

当我们把这两个趋势放在一起时（并假设 2020 年 3 月和 4 月期间，大多数美国人至少是一样被社交隔离的），我们发现：在 2020 年，美国人平均用 300 小时与朋友、教会成员和邻居的亲身接触时间，换取了 300 小时花费在社交媒体、电视和网络阅读上的时间。

No wonder 2021 turned out this way and 2022 promises more of the same. And again, this all comes after the U.S. surgeon general called loneliness our great epidemic in 2017. Lord, have mercy.

难怪 2021 年的结果是这样，2022 年的情况也是如此。而且，这一切都发生在美国卫生总监在 2017 年宣称孤独是我们最大的流行病之后。主啊，怜悯我们吧。

But it’s not just that in-person relationships have been replaced with screen time—as if that weren’t damaging enough. The types of relationships we as Americans maintain have radically changed as well.

但真正有害的不仅仅是人际关系已被屏幕时间所取代，作为美国人，我们维持关系的类型也发生了根本变化。

Dangerous Decline of ‘Middle Ring’ Friendships
In his 2014 book The Vanishing Neighbor, sociologist Marc Dunkelman described the decline of American community as primarily a loss of middle-ring relationships. Inner-ring relationships are the most intimate—spouse, children, immediate family, and perhaps a few committed friends. Outer-ring relationships include our neighbors and coworkers with whom we can get along but require little to no deep conversation. (In other words, if someone in my outer ring disagrees with me, it has no real effect on me.) What has been lost in 21st-century America, Dunkelman explains, are middle-ring relationships—the friends we see regularly, our small group at church, a small team at work, our daily running group, and so on.

“中圈”友谊的危险衰落

社会学家马克·邓克尔曼（Marc Dunkelman）在其 2014 年出版的《消失的邻居》（The Vanishing Neighbor）一书中，将美国社区的衰落主要描述为中圈关系的丧失。内圈关系是最亲密的关系——配偶、子女、直系亲属，也许还有几个关系很铁的朋友。外圈关系包括我们的邻居和同事，我们可以与他们相处，但几乎不需要深入交谈。(换句话说，如果我的外圈中有人与我意见相左，对我没有实际影响）。邓克尔曼解释说，在 21 世纪的美国，已经失去的是中圈关系——我们经常见到的朋友，我们在教会中的小组，工作中的小团队，我们的日常跑步小组，等等。

So, we’ve been losing the depth of relationship between our fellow church members, neighbors, coworkers for many years—and social clubs like cycling teams, farming co-ops, and bowling leagues have largely been replaced by solo and virtual activities.

因此，多年来，我们与教会成员、邻居、同事之间关系的深度一直在丧失——自行车队、农场合作社、保龄球联盟等社会俱乐部在很大程度上被单独和虚拟活动所取代。

We’ve been losing the depth of relationship between our fellow church members, neighbors, coworkers for many years.

多年来，我们与教会成员、邻居、同事之间关系的深度一直在丧失。

Earlier this year, columnist Michelle Goldberg reflected on the unprecedented loyalty with which people followed their political leaders in 2020. Thousands of citizens followed their candidates from city to city like rock-band groupies. What was the common denominator among the most committed? More than anything, prior loneliness marked the most avid political followers. Many who had no family or were estranged from their families could find a welcoming community in political tribes, which rival only underfunded church planters in their hunger to assimilate new people.

今年早些时候，专栏作家米歇尔·戈德堡(Michelle Goldberg)反思了 2020 年那些追随政治领袖的人们空前的忠诚度。成千上万的美国人像摇滚乐队粉丝一样，从一个城市到另一个城市，追随他们的候选人。最忠诚的粉丝们有什么共同点？最狂热的政治追随者最明显的特征是之前所说的孤独感。许多人因为没有家人或与家人疏远，他们可以在政治部落中找到一个受欢迎的共同体，这些部落渴望吸纳新人，就像资金不足的教会植堂者们一样。

Rise of ‘Faction’ Friendships
As David French has shown, as Americans have lost real-world, middle-ring friendships, the void has often been filled through affinity-based friendships, often started online. These “factional friendships,” as French calls them, are those that say, “You’re either with us or you’re against us.” They are dangerous because they provide a sense of purpose—“as destructive or false as it may be.”

“派别”友谊的崛起
正如大卫·弗伦奇（David French）所表明的那样，随着美国人失去了现实世界的中圈友谊，这种空白往往通过基于共同爱好的、开始于网上的友谊来填补。这些 “派别友谊”，正如弗伦奇所说，是那种 “要么跟我们一伙，要么跟我们作对 ”的友谊。这是危险的，因为它提供一种虚假和具有破坏力的目标意识。

And if our nation is full of factional friendships and lacking in middle-ring friendships, we’re in trouble. Without healthy church community or even a few good friends, we can get lost in a web of so-called friendships that are based on social-political alignment and little else. Unless we have a healthy network of family, friends, and church—not based on identical social and political views—then these faction friendships can be damaging to individuals, churches, and society as a whole. French writes:

而如果我们的国家充满了派系友谊，缺乏中圈友谊，我们就有麻烦了。如果没有健康的教会团体，甚至没有几个好朋友，我们就会迷失在所谓的友谊网中，而这些友谊是基于社会政治上的一致性，除此之外，再无其他。除非我们有一个健康的家庭、朋友和教会网络——不是基于相同的社会和政治观点——否则这些派别友谊会对个人、教会和整个社会造成损害。法国人写道：

I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it a thousand times more. This is a prime reason why you can’t fact-check, plead, or argue a person out of a conspiracy, because you’re trying to fact-check, plead, and argue them out of their community.

我以前说过，我还要说一千次。为什么你不能对一个持有阴谋论的人进行事实核查、恳求或争论，首要的原因是你试图让他们离开自己的共同体进行事实核查、恳求和争论。

Our experience in the last few years suggests a distinction: there’s a type of passive loneliness (lacking friends and community) and a divisive loneliness (rejecting friends and community unless they are in total agreement with your social, political, and religious views). Said another way, there’s a dark side to belonging.

我们在过去几年的经验表明，有两种截然不同的孤独：一种是被动的孤独（缺乏朋友和共同体），另一种是分裂的孤独（拒绝朋友和共同体，除非他们与你的社会、政治和宗教观点完全一致）。换个角度说，归属感有其黑暗的一面。

Unless we can restore the types of donut-shop conversations that bring shared, generous moments between two very different people, we’ll have little hope for our shared social life seeing any improvement.

除非我们能够恢复甜甜圈店的这种对话，让两个非常不同的人之间拥有共同的、慷慨的时刻，否则我们的共同社会生活几乎看不到任何改善的希望。

Social Media’s Role
Social media began around the promise of increased connection in a culture that was moving toward more transience and transition. Stay connected to your friends wherever they are, they said. It’ll be great, they said. But the social-media project has transformed into something different in the past decade and a half, and now these sites have become platforms for curated advertising and social sorting—driving us to connect with people like us.

社交媒体的作用

社交媒体是一种承诺，应许人们在转瞬即逝和变化多端的文化中增加联系。 他们说，无论身在何处，你都可以与朋友保持联系。 他们说，这会很棒。 但在过去的 15 年里，社交媒体项目已经转变为不同的东西，现在这些网站已经成为策划广告和社会分层的平台，促使我们物以类聚，人以群分。

Earlier this year, Tim Keller reviewed sociologist Chris Bail’s Breaking the Social Media Prism. Bail asks how social media have contributed to the problems of social and political polarization, and Keller summarizes:

今年早些时候，蒂姆·凯勒评论了社会学家克里斯·贝尔的《打破社交媒体的棱镜》。贝尔问，社交媒体如何促成了社会和政治两极化？凯勒总结道：

The common answer is that algorithms keep us in “echo chambers” or “bubbles” where we only hear news and opinions from our own side, and this drives division and extremism. But Bail points to research showing that, on the contrary, daily exposure to opposing political and cultural views (and not just to the nasty, caustic versions of those views) only makes people stronger in their views or even more extreme. People who regularly listened to the opposite opinions did not adjust their views and become more balanced or moderate because for many people social media [have] become a place where they are curating a self. And therefore they see opposing views as attacks on their identity.

常见的答案是，算法使我们处于 “回声室”或 “气泡”中，我们只听到来自自己一方的新闻和意见，这推动了分裂和极端主义。但贝尔指出，研究表明，恰恰相反，每天接触与自己意见相左的政治和文化观点（而不仅仅是这些观点的讨厌的、尖刻的表达）只会使人们对自己的观点更加坚定，甚至更加极端。经常听取相反意见的人并没有调整他们的观点，变得更加平衡或温和，因为对许多人来说，社交媒体业已成为他们策展自我的地方。因此，他们将反对意见视为对其身份的攻击。

As a result, social media have become the ideal platform for rewarding extreme views and muting moderate ones. It’s not a great place to present our views, receive alternative views, and engage in civil discourse. Instead, it’s just one more way to identify yourself with certain groups (and not others) and establish a personal brand. (The answer, for Keller, is not necessarily to abandon social media altogether—there are too many people engaging there and it has positive benefits—but to reform it comprehensively.)

因此，社交媒体已经成为奖励极端观点和压制温和观点的理想平台。这不是一个展示我们的观点、接受其他观点和参与文明讨论的好地方。相反，它只是一种识别自己与某些群体（而不是其他群体）和建立个人品牌的又一种方式。(对凯勒来说，答案不一定是完全放弃社交媒体——有太多的人在那里参与，它有积极的好处——而是要全面改革它。）

So, putting it all together, we now have our complex problem in view: While most Americans were fortunate enough to see our closest relationships remain intact, our middle-ring relationships, especially our friendships, have dissolved or disappeared at an unprecedented rate. This void has largely been filled by increased screen time and faction friendships, with social media replacing local, face-to-face conversation as the locus of communication.

因此，把这一切放在一起，我们看到问题的复杂性，虽然大多数美国人有幸看到我们最亲密的关系保持完好，但我们的中圈关系，特别是我们的友谊，已经以前所未有的速度溶解或消失了。这一空白在很大程度上被延长的屏幕时间和派系友谊所填补，社交媒体取代了本地的、面对面的谈话，成为交流的场所。

What’s lost was beautiful and world-changing. Our friendships—the middle-ring relationships of believers with one another and with those outside the church—are not just great for us. They’re a powerful force for social good.

我们失去的是美丽的、改变世界的东西。我们的友谊——信徒彼此之间以及与教会外的人之间的中圈关系——不仅对我们有好处，也是促进社会福祉的强大力量。

Church Friendships’ Social Power
In 2012, Harvard researcher Robert Putnam, author of Bowling Alone and American Grace, made a significant discovery. He had previously studied the correlation between religious affiliation and altruistic behavior, such as giving to charity, volunteering, serving people outside your religious group, and even returning change to a store. Then he asked why. Why are religious people kinder, more selfless neighbors to their communities?

教会友谊的社会力量
2012 年，哈佛大学研究员罗伯特·普特南（Robert Putnam）（《独自打保龄》（Bowling Alone）和《美国恩典》（American Grace）的作者），公布了一个重大发现。他以前曾研究过宗教归属与利他主义行为之间的关联，例如向慈善机构捐款、做志愿者、为你的宗教团体以外的人服务，甚至向商店归还找错的零钱。然后他问为什么。为什么宗教人士成为对他们的社区更加仁慈，更加无私的邻居？

Our friendships are not just great for us. They’re a powerful force for social good.

 我们的友谊不仅对我们有好处，也是促进社会福祉的强大力量。

He explored numerous factors that didn’t add up to more altruistic behavior—denominational tradition, intensity of beliefs, and so on. In fact, there was only one factor that consistently correlated to healthy neighborliness: friendships and personal relationships within the church. In other words, people with the strongest relationships within their faith community are the kindest, most selfless people toward those outside their faith community.

他探索了许多因素，但这些因素并没有增加更多的利他行为——教派传统、信仰的强度等等。事实上，只有一个因素与健康的邻里关系持续相关：教会中的友谊和个人关系。换句话说，在其信仰共同体内关系最牢固的人是对局外人最善良、最无私的人。

Putnam summarizes:

Having more friends is associated with altruism, but “church friends” matter a lot, even beyond that fact; church friends seem super-charged. . . . The power of church friends, our data show, is more than the sum of being religious and having friends.

普特南总结道：

拥有更多的朋友与利他主义有关，但“教会朋友”非常重要，事实甚至超出了这一点；教会朋友似乎有用不完的能量……我们的数据显示，教会朋友的力量大于有宗教信仰+有朋友。

See, there’s a type of belonging that’s dangerous for us and the world. It’s the non-local, politically aligned faction friendships that say, “You’re with us or against us.” These social groups are often identified by what they’re against, and the fruit of their relationships often includes conflict, division, uncharitable views of outsiders. Healthy Christian communities, on the other hand, result in a significant increase in kindness, gentleness, goodness, and self-control. Those on the outside are treated with love, dignity, and hospitality—not fear, suspicion, and exclusion.

你看，有一种归属感给我们和世界都是带来危险。它是非本地的、政治上一致的派别友谊，它说："要么跟我们一伙，要么跟我们作对" 。这些社会团体往往以他们所反对的东西来识别，其关系的果子往往包括冲突、分裂、对外人不友善的看法。与之相反，健康的基督徒群体会导致仁慈、温柔、善良和自制力的大幅提高。局外人会受到爱、尊严和热情的对待，而不是恐惧、怀疑和排斥。

So, what do we do now? How can believers, churches, and ministries respond to the loneliness epidemic? How can we restore friendships, rebuild fellowship, and reach our cities in this cultural moment?

那么，我们现在应该怎么办？基督徒、教会和事工如何应对孤独的流行？在这个多事之秋，我们怎样才能恢复友谊，重建团契，并深入接触我们的城市？

Reordering Our Lives (and Our Loves)
It’s helpful to think of the past two years in terms of discipleship patterns—the habits of life we’ve learned from what we experience and consume. In this broad sense, discipleship is always happening: We become what we consume, as our patterns of life direct and dictate our deepest feelings, thoughts, and motives. We’re always being conformed to the heart and personality and lifestyle of another person or ideology.

重新安排我们的生活（和我们的爱）
从门训模式的角度来思考过去的两年会大有裨益，我们从经验和消费中学到生活习惯。从这个广义上讲，门训一直在进行。我们成为我们所消费的东西，我们的生活模式指导和支配着我们最深的感受、思想和动机。我们总是在顺从另一个人或意识形态的内心、个性和生活方式。

In The Spirit of the Disciplines, Dallas Willard wrote that the primary way by which we’re conformed to Jesus (once we’re united to him and regenerated) is by following him in the overall pattern of his earthly life. By obeying his teachings, meditating on his sufferings, death, and resurrection, and practicing his way of life, we become like him. If we believe that he is the perfect representation of the Father and the sinless God-man, then we should also believe that he knew better than anyone how to live in this broken and beautiful world.

达拉斯·威拉德在《纪律的精神》中写道，一旦我们耶稣联合并获得重生，我们顺服他的主要方式就是效法他在尘世生活的整体模式。通过遵从他的教导，默想他的苦难、死亡和复活，并实践他的生活方式，我们变得像他一样。如果我们相信他是天父的完美代表，是无罪的神和人，那么我们也应该相信，他比任何人都更清楚如何在这个破碎而美丽的世界上生活。

It follows, then, that if the way to become like Christ is to follow his way of life, then Jesus’s earthly friendships should point us to the ideal pattern of human flourishing in relationships.

因此，如果跟随耶稣的生活方式才能变得像基督，那么耶稣在地上的友谊应该为我们指出人类在关系中兴盛的理想模式。

So what types of relationships do we see in the life of Jesus?

Absolute devotion to his closest friends (the Twelve)
Intentional pursuit of disliked community members (Zacchaeus)
Conversation with those of other cultures (Samaritan woman)
Eating with friends, family members, and outsiders
Attending weddings, funerals, and cultural events
Relationships with the poor and needy (eating with “sinners”)
If all our problems, as Augustine wrote long ago, result from disordered loves, then reordering our lives and reordering our loves will go hand in hand.

那么，我们在耶稣的生活中看到哪些类型的关系？

对他最亲密的朋友（十二门徒）全然摆上
刻意邀请不受喜欢的共同体成员（撒该）
与其他文化背景的人交谈（撒玛利亚妇女）
与朋友、家人和外人一起进餐
参加婚礼、葬礼和文化活动
与穷人和有需要的人的关系（与罪人一起吃饭）

正如奥古斯丁很久以前所写的那样，如果我们所有的问题，是由于无序的爱造成的，那么重新安排我们的生活与重新安排我们的爱将齐头并进。

Recovering Friendships, Rebuilding Community
The work of rebuilding friendships and restoring community isn’t complicated but it is difficult. It’s not complex because the means and the end are the same: The path to rebuilt friendships is rebuilding friendships.

恢复友谊，重建共同体

重建友谊和恢复社区的工作并不复杂，却很困难。说不复杂是因为手段和目的一样的：友谊的重建之路就是重建友谊。

But the work is difficult, too, because it requires this reordering of priorities and life patterns. Our life systems are perfectly designed for the results we’re getting, and so we need to change the inputs to change the outputs.

但这项工作也很困难，因为它需要对优先事项和生活模式进行重新排序。我们的生活系统是一种完美的设计，目的是得到我们想要的结果，因此我们需要改变输入以改变输出。

We need to repattern our lives around relationships.

我们需要围绕关系重新安排我们的生活。

We cannot continue to preach a relational God in this community called church and not actually prioritize the long obedience of relationship-building. And as we know (but struggle to practice) across the church, relationship-building looks like showing up, taking initiative, building relationships outside our natural tribe, and having patience for each other.

我们不能继续在这个被称为教会的社区中宣扬关系型神，而不真正优先考虑建立关系的长期顺服。正如我们在整个教会中所知道的（但要努力实践），建立关系看起来就像出现、主动、在我们的自然部落之外建立关系，以及对彼此有耐心。

我们不能继续在这个被称为教会的共同体中宣扬一位看重关系的上帝，而不把建立关系的长期顺服放在首位。正如我们在教会生活中所知道的（但要努力实践），建立关系看上去如此行：出现在该出现的地方、采取主动行动、在我们的小圈子之外建立关系，以及对彼此有耐心。

1.  Show Up and Be Consistent
There’s no shortcut to friendship and community. But then again, nothing worthwhile comes without intentionality and perseverance. We must remember that we were created for community, we need one another, and without all sorts of friendships, we’ll suffer personally, and our churches will struggle. We need to show up with countercultural regularity.

一、经常现身，保持一致

建立友谊和共同体没有捷径。但话说回来，任何有价值的东西都需要刻意为之和坚持到底。我们必须记住，我们是为共同体而生的，我们彼此需要，如果没有各种友谊，我们的个体会受苦，我们的教会也会陷入挣扎。我们需要以对抗流行文化的方式定期出现。

If we’ve lost 300 hours of friendship and companionship in 2020, and perhaps that much in 2021, how are we going to restore these hundreds of hours this year and in the years to come?

如果我们在 2020 年失去了 300 个小时的友谊和陪伴，也许在 2021 年也会失去这么多，那么在今年和未来的几年里，我们该如何恢复这几百个小时呢？

Friendships and middle-ring relationships take time. Therefore, “be devoted to one another in love. Honor one another above yourselves” (Rom. 12:9–10, NIV). Put in the time, the love, and the honor, and the relationships will deepen.

友谊和中圈关系需要时间。因此，"爱人不可虚假，恶要厌恶，善要亲近。爱弟兄，要彼此亲热。恭敬人，要彼此推让。"（罗马书 12:9-10）。投入时间、爱和尊敬，关系就会加深。

2.  Be the Initiative-Taker and Space-Creator
Hospitality is the distinctively Christian practice of creating space for others. It’s the Christlike pattern of opening our lives and our homes to people, whether they’re our regular friends or soon-to-be friends.

二、 主动行动，创造空间

好客是基督徒独特的实践，即为他人创造空间，学习基督的模式，向人们开放我们的生活和家庭，无论他们是我们的普通朋友还是在成为我们朋友的路上。

I’ve heard countless people during my 15 years of ministry say that they don’t feel connected or that people haven’t reached out to them. But those with the deepest connections are always those who take the initiative and, as Paul commands, “practice hospitality” (Rom. 12:13, NIV). Be the initiative-taker and space-creator, and over time, your relational circles will be overflowing.

在我 15 年的事工中，我听到无数人说，他们没有感觉到与人联接，或者人们没有向他们伸出援手。但那些建立最深联系的人总是那些主动出击的人，正如保罗所命令的，“客要一味地款待。”（罗马书 12:13）。成为主动行动者和空间创造者，随着时间的推移，你的关系圈将会高朋满溢。

3.  Cultivate Friendships Outside Your Tribe
As we’ve seen, there’s a dark type of belonging—when we develop a small group of friends that share our exact belief system and look with disdain on those outside the circle. To prevent this, we need to cultivate friendships outside our natural tribe.

三、培养你部落以外的友谊

正如我们所看到的，有一种归属感是暗黑型的，那就是当我们发展出与我们有着完全相同的信仰体系一小群朋友，并对圈外人不屑一顾的时候。为了防止这种情况，我们需要在我们的自然部落之外培养朋友关系。

If all my friends look like me, have similar social status as me, or have the same educational background as me, then I haven’t made much progress in adopting the overall way of life Jesus demonstrated. Christlikeness means taking initiative with those most unlike us and seeking their good.

如果我所有的朋友都长得像我，有和我类似的社会地位，或者有和我一样的教育背景，那么我在全面追随耶稣的生命模式方面没有什么进展。友善意味着主动与那些最不像我们的人相处，并以使他们得益处为追求。

Christlikeness means taking initiative with those most unlike us and seeking their good.
友善意味着主动与那些最不像我们的人相处，并以使他们得益处为追求。

4.  Have Patience
No one likes being mistreated or ruled out, but we all have people who are difficult for us to love. And if we’re honest with ourselves, we are difficult people to love.

四、要有耐心

没有人喜欢被不公正对待或被排除在外，但我们都有一些很难让我们爱的人。如果我们对自己诚实，我们也是很难让人去爱的人。

Perhaps it’s exceptionally difficult to bear with people in your church or small group or friendship circle. Maybe everything they do is frustrating. I believe the New Testament would say simply, have patience. Paul said it best:

也许在你的教会、小组或友谊圈中的人特别难以忍受。也许他们所做的一切都让人沮丧。我相信新约圣经会简单地说，要有耐心。保罗说得最好。

As God’s chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Bear with each other and forgive one another if any of you has a grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. (Col. 3:12–14, NIV).

所以你们既是神的选民，圣洁蒙爱的人，就要存（原文作穿下同）怜悯，恩慈，谦虚，温柔，忍耐的心。倘若这人与那人有嫌隙，总要彼此包容，彼此饶恕。主怎样饶恕了你们，你们也要怎样饶恕人。在这一切之外，要存着爱心。爱心就是联络全德的。（歌罗西书3:12-14）

The pandemic has been hard for everyone, unequally and in different ways, but still hard. Our culture has been shaping us all in harmful ways, and we must have grace for one another—even for ourselves. We have lost a lot during the past two years, including some things that are gone forever. But the road to a less lonely church and a body of thriving friendships is this: putting in the time and energy, face-to-face, with believers and non-Christians alike, seeking the good of the other.

这场大瘟疫对每个人来说都很艰难，纵然难度不同，方式各异，但难就一个字。我们的文化一直在以有害的方式塑造我们所有人，我们必须满有恩典地对待，包括对待我们自己。在过去的两年里，我们失去了很多，包括一些永远消失的东西。但是通往不那么孤独的教会和友情兴盛的机构的道路就是这样：投入时间和精力，与信徒和非基督徒面对面，寻求对方的好处。

It’s the way of Jesus. It’s the God-given design for our lives. It’s the way back to restored friendships and a renewed community.

这是耶稣的方式。这是上帝对我们生活的设计。这是回到恢复友谊和更新共同体的途径。

Jeremy Linneman is lead pastor of Trinity Community Church, which he planted in Columbia, Missouri. Before planting Trinity, he was a staff pastor of Sojourn Community Church in Louisville, Kentucky, for seven years. He is author of Life-Giving Groups: “How-To” Grow Healthy, Multiplying Community Groups (Sojourn Network, 2017). Jeremy and his wife, Jessie, have three sons and spend most of their free time outdoors. 

Jeremy Linneman（杰里米·利纳曼）是密西根州哥伦比亚市三一社区教会的主任牧师。在植堂建立这间教会之前，他曾在肯塔基州路易斯维尔的“旅居社区教会”担任牧师七年。杰里米和他的妻子杰西有三个儿子，他们大多数的闲暇时光都会呆在户外。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/covid-affected-friendships/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：5 Foundations That Lead to Compromise on Sexual Ethics

作者：Jeremy Linneman

本文简介：COVID肆虐，孤独也在流行，基督徒摆脱派系友谊，爱邻舍，与教会的肢体和周围的人有位格的相交，从而全面效法基督。

本文栏目：基督徒生活

本文标签：友谊, 社交媒体