How Reformed Theology Is Changing Latinos in Chicago

JANUARY 6,2022| ELIOT VELAZQUEZ

改革宗神学如何改变芝加哥的拉美人

2022年1月6日｜艾略特-维拉兹奎斯

分享到

转发

电子邮件

在 TGC 上做广告

Two years ago, my church nearly shut down.

We were an 8-year-old plant—CityLights Church—located in the Chicago community with the highest Latino population. Our lead pastor, who had left the Word of Faith church after being exposed to Reformed theology, had resigned after his emotional and spiritual life began to spiral.

两年前，我的教会几乎关闭。

我们是一个有8年历史的机构--城市之光教会，位于芝加哥拉丁裔人口最多的社区。我们的主任牧师在接触到改革宗神学后离开了信仰之路教会，在他的情感和灵性生活开始下滑后辞职了。

Eliot and Michelle Velazquez and their family / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

艾略特和米歇尔-维拉兹克斯和他们的家人/艾略特-维拉兹克斯提供

Our congregation was left in disarray. Hurt, anger, and disillusionment were exacerbated by the bills piling up. Hurt and tired members left en masse—and I couldn’t blame them. As a bivocational elder who co-led the church, I was also exhausted and eyeing the door.

我们的会众陷入混乱。伤害、愤怒和幻灭被堆积如山的账单加剧了。受伤和疲惫的成员集体离开，我不能怪他们。作为一个共同领导教会的双职长老，我也筋疲力尽，眼看就要关门了。

To continue made no logical sense. We had two elders (including me), a pile of debt, and lots of decisions: should we sell the building, cut our losses, and go our separate ways? Should we merge with another church? Was it worth pressing on?

继续下去是没有逻辑意义的。我们有两位长老（包括我），一堆债务，还有很多决定：我们是否应该卖掉建筑，减少损失，然后分道扬镳？我们是否应该与另一个教会合并？是否值得继续下去？

Ultimately, we committed to bear the physical, emotional, and spiritual burden of revitalizing a dying church. Here’s why: there was no other church with a commitment to gospel centrality, urban missions, and Reformed theology in our predominantly Latino and impoverished community.

最终，我们承诺承担振兴一个垂死的教会的身体、情感和精神负担。原因是：在我们这个以拉丁裔为主的贫困社区，没有其他教会承诺以福音为中心，进行城市宣教和改革宗神学。

Reformed theology changed my life, and it changed my fellow church members. This is why we could not let our church die.

改革宗神学改变了我的生活，也改变了我的教会成员。这就是为什么我们不能让我们的教会死亡。

Eliot: Personal Reformation

艾略特。个人的改革

I grew up in a multicultural Baptist church in one of the city’s deadliest neighborhoods in the early 2000 s. (It’s still deadly—in 2020,it was the hardest-hit with COVID in all of Illinois.) In my high school youth group, I first heard the five points of Calvinism. Conversations with my youth pastor sparked a study of Reformed theology that I would soon embrace, all while I was becoming more invigorated by urban ministry.

我是在一个多元文化的浸信会教会中长大的，在21世纪初，这个城市最致命的社区之一。(它仍然是致命的--2020年，它是整个伊利诺伊州受 COVID 影响最严重的地方）。在我的高中青年小组里，我第一次听到加尔文主义的五点。与我的青年牧师的对话引发了对改革宗神学的研究，我很快就接受了这一研究，同时我对城市事工也变得更加振奋。

Reformed theology changed my life, and it changed my fellow church members.

改革宗神学改变了我的生活，也改变了我的教会成员。

I saw gun violence, single-parent households, fathers in jail, homelessness. I wanted to see lives changed and biblical knowledge grow. When God called me to CityLights as the church was being planted, I saw the need for heart-transforming doctrines of grace being taught explicitly and boldly.

我看到枪支暴力、单亲家庭、父亲入狱、无家可归。我希望看到生命的改变和圣经知识的增长。当上帝呼召我到 CityLights 时，教会正在建立，我看到需要明确和大胆地教导改变人心的恩典教义。

Many of those in CityLights had left the Word of Faith church. To help them, I went deeper into the Reformed faith. The Explicit Gospel by Matt Chandler showed me the corporate and cosmic implications of the gospel. John Piper’s The Pleasures of God helped me and others see the majesty and supremacy of God’s pleasure in all he does. The Gospel as Center, a collection of essays by members of The Gospel Coalition Council, showed me the centrality of the gospel for all of ministry and all of life. I adapted Wayne Grudem’s Systematic Theology to create our church’s first doctrine class. John Piper’s lecture series Gravity and Gladness shaped our understanding of corporate worship, and his poem The Calvinist gave me aspiration of the type of man I wanted to be.


城市之光中的许多人已经离开了信仰之言教会。为了帮助他们，我更深入地了解改革宗的信仰。马特-钱德勒的《明确的福音》让我看到了福音的团体和宇宙意义。约翰-派博的《神的喜悦》帮助我和其他人看到了神在他所做的一切中的威严和至上的喜悦。福音为中心》是福音联盟理事会成员的论文集，向我展示了福音在所有事工和所有生活中的中心地位。我改编了韦恩-格鲁德姆的《系统神学》，创建了我们教会的第一个教义课。约翰-派博的系列讲座《重力与喜乐》塑造了我们对集体敬拜的理解，他的诗《加尔文主义者》让我对自己想成为的那类人有了期望。

Reformed theology had changed me. But just as powerfully, I had seen Reformed theology shape our church members.

改革宗神学改变了我。但同样有力的是，我看到改革宗神学塑造了我们的教会成员。

Alex and Maria: Suffering Under God’s Sovereign Hand

亚历克斯和玛丽亚：在上帝的主权之手下受苦

One church member who has been changed by Reformed theology is Alex Diaz. He was led to the Lord by a faithful brother who invited him to a predominantly Latino Word of Faith church in Chicago. Alex was mentored there and eventually became a pastor. But through his careful study of Scripture, he realized the false teaching of the church. He knew he had missional zeal but lacked theological proficiency.

一位被改革宗神学改变的教会成员是亚历克斯-迪亚兹。他被一位忠实的弟兄引领到主面前，这位弟兄邀请他到芝加哥一个以拉丁裔为主的信仰之路教会。亚历克斯在那里得到了指导，最终成为一名牧师。但通过对圣经的仔细研究，他意识到教会的错误教导。他知道自己有传教的热情，但缺乏神学上的精通。

CityLights women’s Bible study / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

CityLights 妇女查经班/艾略特-维拉兹克斯提供

Alex is married to Maria, who was saved from an abusive relationship that produced two children by the time she was 17. The two started to wrestle with the conflict between the truth of the Scriptures and what was being taught or lived by the pastor.

亚历克斯与玛丽亚结婚，玛丽亚从一段虐待关系中获救，在她17岁时产生了两个孩子。两人开始纠结于圣经的真理和牧师的教导或生活之间的冲突。

A CityLights pastor referred Alex to podcasts and books on Reformed theology. They transformed his thinking, eventually leading him to join our congregation. For Alex, a Chicago firefighter facing early retirement due to stage-four cancer diagnosis, it was God’s sovereignty that gave him hope. Alex and Maria now both consider Alex’s cancer a gift from a loving and gracious God who, although allowing cancer to take so much from their lives, gave them a far better blessing: seeing and savoring Christ all the more.

CityLights 的一位牧师向亚历克斯介绍了关于改革派神学的播客和书籍。这些书改变了他的思维，最终导致他加入我们的会众。亚历克斯是一名芝加哥消防员，因被诊断出癌症第四期而面临提前退休，是上帝的主权给了他希望。亚历克斯和玛丽亚现在都认为亚历克斯的癌症是一位充满爱心和恩典的上帝的礼物，虽然上帝允许癌症从他们的生活中带走这么多东西，但却给了他们一个更好的祝福：看到并更多地品尝到基督。

Through cancer diagnoses, COVID-related trauma, anxiety and depression, and even the loss of children, resting in the sovereignty of God has encouraged our members to “kiss the wave” that threw us against the Rock of Ages. Trials and trauma can find their proper place in our minds under our grasp of God’s sovereignty in all things.

经历了癌症诊断、与 COVID 有关的创伤、焦虑和抑郁，甚至失去孩子，安息在神的主权中，鼓励我们的成员"亲吻波浪"，将我们抛向亘古之岩。在我们对神在万事万物中的主权的把握下，试炼和创伤可以在我们心中找到合适的位置。


David: Electing Love

大卫：选择爱

A common theme that comes up in counseling meetings is the baggage of abandonment or abuse. Our members can tell story after story of growing up without fathers or mothers, or of being sexually abused as a child by a relative. These traumas often result in deep-seated resentment toward parental figures and a difficulty in grasping God as Father.

在咨询会议上经常出现的一个主题是被遗弃或虐待的包袱。我们的成员可以讲述一个又一个在成长过程中没有父亲或母亲的故事，或者在童年时被亲戚性虐待的故事。这些创伤往往导致人们对父母亲的怨恨根深蒂固，难以理解上帝是父亲。

Praying with the grandmother of a little girl who had been shot and killed, two blocks from CityLights / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

在离"城市之光"两个街区的地方，与一个被枪杀的小女孩的祖母一起祈祷/艾略特-维拉兹克斯提供

Take David Diaz, for instance. David was born in Honduras and raised in the church. When he was 8, his father showed up drunk and belligerent at the women’s prayer meeting in his mother’s home. After the women prayed for him, David’s father walked him to the door, hugged him, said he loved him, and told him goodbye. David would not see his father for another decade.

以大卫-迪亚兹为例。大卫出生在洪都拉斯，在教会中长大。在他8岁的时候，他的父亲在他母亲家里的妇女祷告会上出现了，他喝醉了，而且很好斗。在妇女们为他祈祷后，大卫的父亲把他送到门口，拥抱他，说他爱他，并向他告别。大卫又有十年没有见到他的父亲了。

For years, David struggled with his father’s abandonment and wondered if he had something to do with it. Was he not happy with me? He carried these unsettled and unanswered questions with him as he grew in his Christian walk.

多年来，大卫一直在与他父亲的遗弃作斗争，并想知道他是否与此有关。他和我在一起是不是不开心？当他在基督徒的道路上成长时，他带着这些不安和未解答的问题。

David was exposed to Reformed theology by a godly man who took the time to explain the doctrines of grace. To David, election seemed unfair.“This is not the God I serve,” he’d say.

大卫接触到了改革宗的神学，是由一个虔诚的人花时间解释恩典的教义。对大卫来说，选举似乎不公平。他说："这不是我所侍奉的上帝"。

Yet through studying and discussing these truths, David saw not only a just God who would do whatever he pleases, but a loving heavenly Father who reached down and chose him—a totally depraved, sin-cursed man. David’s earthly father rejected him, despite David’s efforts to “choose” his father. Now he embraced the truth of a heavenly Father who not only accepted him, but elected him despite anything he had done, good or bad.

然而，通过研究和讨论这些真理，大卫不仅看到了一位会随心所欲的公正的上帝，而且看到了一位慈爱的天父，他伸手选择了他--一个完全堕落的、被罪恶诅咒的人。尽管大卫努力"选择"他的父亲，但他在地上的父亲还是拒绝了他。现在他接受了天父的真理，天父不仅接受了他，而且选择了他，尽管他做了任何事情，无论好坏。

The truth of election helped David with his hurt and grief toward his earthly father, enabling him not only to forgive but to build a relationship with him. David, who’d been involved in leading worship since he was 7 in Honduras, ended up coming to CityLights while looking for a Reformed church with passionate worship. Eventually, he became one of our elders.

拣选的真理帮助大卫解决了他对地上父亲的伤害和悲痛，使他不仅能够原谅，而且能够与他建立起关系。大卫从7岁开始就在洪都拉斯参与带领敬拜，最后在寻找一个有激情敬拜的改革派教会时来到了 CityLights。最后，他成为我们的长老之一。

In that first year after our church suffered the sadness of losing our lead pastor, David preached on Romans 9, declaring to a still-struggling church the glory of God in choosing ill-deserving sinners for himself. Although we may feel abandoned, we are never forsaken by our gracious Father.

在我们教会遭受失去首席牧师的悲痛后的第一年，大卫讲授了《罗马书》第9章，向仍在挣扎的教会宣告了上帝为自己选择不配的罪人的荣耀。虽然我们可能感到被抛弃，但我们从未被我们仁慈的父亲抛弃。

Eliezer: Persevering Saints

埃利泽。坚持不懈的圣徒

Being in a Reformed church with a large constituency of former Pentecostals presents unique opportunities (such as passion in corporate worship) along with unique challenges (such as legalism). One of our responsibilities is helping our members understand that their stance before God is not dependent on their work, but on Christ’s alone.

在一个拥有大量前五旬节信徒的改革派教会中，有独特的机会（如团体敬拜中的激情），也有独特的挑战（如律法主义）。我们的责任之一是帮助我们的成员明白，他们在神面前的地位并不取决于他们的工作，而只取决于基督的工作。


CityLights Church / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

城市之光教会/埃利奥特-维拉兹奎兹提供

Eliezer Mercado grew up in a legalistic Pentecostal church in which men were unable to grow beards, women had to wear skirts, and your salvation depended on strict adherence to denominational tradition and Christian practices. If you didn’t attend church faithfully or read your Bible regularly, your salvation was in doubt. Eliezer ended up marrying the senior pastor’s daughter and became his heir apparent.

埃利泽-梅尔卡多在一个律法主义的五旬节教会中长大，在那里，男人不能留胡子，女人必须穿裙子，你的救赎取决于对教派传统和基督教习俗的严格遵守。如果你不忠实地去教堂，不经常读圣经，你的救赎就会受到怀疑。埃利泽最后娶了高级牧师的女儿，成为他的继承人。

One day, Eliezer heard a Baptist preacher on the radio. He began tuning in regularly, and his interest was sparked. Soon he began to question his church’s dogma—why did members never hear about struggling with sin? Why did they have to keep asking for manifestations of the Holy Spirit? Why were manmade traditions requirements for salvation? Why was the gospel rarely preached?

有一天，埃利泽在广播中听到一位浸信会的传教士。他开始定期收听，他的兴趣被激发出来。很快，他开始质疑教会的教条--为什么成员们从未听说过与罪作斗争？为什么他们必须不断要求圣灵的显灵？为什么人为的传统是救赎的要求？为什么福音很少被宣扬？

Eliezer enrolled at Trinity International University, where he was exposed to the doctrines of grace. Little by little, he began to approach his father-in-law to show him the Bible’s teaching on salvation by grace alone.“We don’t teach that here” was the response.

埃利泽进入了三一国际大学，在那里他接触到了恩典的教义。渐渐地，他开始接近他的岳父，向他展示圣经中关于仅靠恩典得救的教导。他的回答是"我们这里不教这个"。

But Eliezer couldn’t stay quiet. He began to teach his extended family, who were in his church. Their thinking was revolutionized. As they wrestled with the doctrines of grace together, trying to reconcile what they had been taught, they began to understand the freedom found in Christ.


但埃利泽不能保持沉默。他开始教导他的大家庭，他们都在他的教会里。他们的思想被彻底改变了。当他们一起与恩典的教义搏斗，试图调和他们所受的教育时，他们开始理解在基督里找到的自由。

Men’s Bible study / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

男子查经班/艾略特-维拉兹克斯提供

There was freedom in not having to earn your salvation. There was freedom from the fear of God constantly turning his face from them in their sin struggles, to say confidently with the catechism,“I am not my own, but belong—body and soul, in life and in death—to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood, and has set me free from the tyranny of the devil.” There was freedom to trust in the imputed righteousness of Christ alone to secure salvation, not in denominational decrees or traditions nor in the constant repetition of the “sinner’s prayer.”

不用赚取救赎是一种自由。在他们的罪恶挣扎中，他们不用再害怕上帝不断地转过脸来，可以自信地和慕道者说："我不是我自己的，而是属于我忠实的救主耶稣基督的，无论是身体还是灵魂，无论是生还是死。他已经用他的宝血完全偿还了我所有的罪孽，并使我从魔鬼的暴政中获得自由"。有自由相信只有基督的归义才能确保得救，而不是相信教派的法令或传统，也不是相信不断重复的"罪人的祷告"。

As their theology grew, Eliezer and his extended family made the difficult and painful decision to leave their church. After searching for churches listed on The Gospel Coalition website, they found CityLights.

随着神学的发展，埃利泽和他的大家庭做出了艰难而痛苦的决定，离开他们的教会。在搜索了福音联盟网站上所列的教会后，他们找到了 CityLights。

As a pastor, nothing brings me more shepherding joy than to see believers like Eliezer and his family, who had been bound to the “performance treadmill,” lifting their voices to sing:

作为一名牧师，没有什么比看到像埃利泽和他的家人这样被束缚在"业绩跑步机"上的信徒举起嗓子唱歌更能带给我牧者的喜悦了。

No guilt in life, no fear in death
This is the power of Christ in me
From life’s first cry to final breath
Jesus commands my destiny
No power of hell, no scheme of man
Can ever pluck me from his hand
Till he returns or calls me home
Here in the power of Christ I’ll stand


生无愧于心，死无畏于行

这就是基督在我身上的力量

从生命的第一声啼哭到最后一口气

耶稣指挥我的命运

没有地狱的力量，没有人的计划

能把我从他手中夺走

直到他回来或召唤我回家

在基督的力量中，我将站在这里。


Orlando: TULIP-Driven Mission

奥兰多。TULIP 驱动的使命

J. A. Medders writes that Reformed theology “is meant for more than theological headiness; it is meant for mission.” It was zeal for the glory of God, love for good robust theology, and a heart for God’s people that brought Orlando Munoz, one of our elders, to our church.

J. A. Medders 写道，改革宗的神学"不仅仅是为了神学上的头头是道；它是为了宣教"。正是对神的荣耀的热忱、对良好的稳健神学的热爱以及对神的子民的心，将我们的长老之一奥兰多-穆诺斯带到了我们的教会。

After a night of drinking, Orlando first ended up at a Word of Faith church to check out some ladies. Through his study of the Scriptures, he butted heads with the pastor over theology. He ended up leaving for Texas and joining a church plant.

在喝了一夜酒之后，奥兰多首先在一个信仰之言教会结束了对一些女士的考察。通过对圣经的研究，他与牧师在神学上发生了冲突。最后他离开了德州，加入了一个教会。

His Australian-born pastor turned him on to the writings of Martyn Lloyd-Jones, which led him to J. I. Packer, Andrew Murray, and John MacArthur. As his theology grew, his heart for his friends back in his Word of Faith church compelled him to return. He started a Bible study that turned into a church, which would end up merging with CityLights in 2019.

他在澳大利亚出生的牧师让他接触到马丁-劳埃德-琼斯的著作，这使他认识了 J.I.帕克、安德鲁-默里和约翰-麦克阿瑟。随着他的神学成长，他对信仰之路教会的朋友们的心迫使他返回。他开始了一个查经班，后来变成了一个教会，最终于2019年与 CityLights 合并。

Pressing on for the City

为城市的发展而努力

In our predominately Latino congregation, we have seen the effect of Reformed theology on adults who’d been abused as children, marriages that were on the brink of divorce, and families who didn’t know where the next paycheck would come from. And it was Reformed theology that spurred us as church leaders to press on, get to work, prioritize the teaching of solid biblical doctrine, and be a part of God’s work in our community.


在我们这个以拉丁裔为主的会众中，我们看到了改革开放神学对那些小时候被虐待的成年人、濒临离婚的婚姻、以及不知道下一份薪水从何而来的家庭的影响。正是归正神学促使我们这些教会领袖继续努力，开始工作，优先考虑教授坚实的圣经教义，并成为上帝在我们社区工作的一部分。

Praying for the neighborhood / Courtesy of Eliot Velazquez

为邻里祈祷/艾略特-维拉兹克斯提供

We understand that God is sovereign in all things, including the trials we went through during our leadership transition, COVID, and the individual trials in the lives of our members. We understand that ultimately it is in God that we live and move and have our existence (Acts 17:28), and that he is sovereign over every human heart, head, and hands (Prov.16:9;Isa.46:9–10).

我们明白，神在所有事情上都有主权，包括我们在领导层过渡期间所经历的考验，COVID，以及我们成员生活中的个人考验。我们明白，最终是在神里面，我们活着，移动，有我们的存在（使徒行传17:28），他对每个人的心、头、手都有主权（箴16:9；赛46:9-10）。

Our belief in total depravity helped us wrestle not only with the sins we had committed, but the sins committed against us. And we recognized that ultimately, prosperity-gospel preachers promise health and wealth without ever dealing with the problem of sin that permeates every iota of our being. The only solution to the fallenness of our neighborhood is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It’s a solution our community desperately needs.


我们对完全堕落的信仰不仅帮助我们与我们所犯的罪孽搏斗，而且帮助我们与针对我们的罪孽搏斗。我们认识到，最终，繁荣福音的传教士承诺健康和财富，却没有处理渗透在我们每一个人身上的罪的问题。解决我们社区堕落问题的唯一办法是耶稣基督的福音。这是一个我们社区迫切需要的解决方案。

The only solution to the fallenness of our neighborhood is the gospel of Jesus Christ.

解决我们社区堕落的唯一办法是耶稣基督的福音。

Unconditional election reminded us that God is not hindered by someone’s faulty theological upbringing or poor socioeconomic status. In Chicago, one of the most segregated cities in America, God holds no prejudice.

无条件的选举提醒我们，上帝不会因为某人错误的神学教养或贫穷的社会经济地位而受到阻碍。在芝加哥这个美国种族隔离最严重的城市之一，上帝没有偏见。

We trusted that because of definite atonement, Christ fully and actually saved sinners in our church and turned them into saints. No matter what church tradition or denominational dogma taught our church members, because of our faith in the finished work of Christ, we can know that God chose us and gave us the gift of saving faith.

我们相信，由于明确的赎罪，基督完全地、实际地拯救了我们教会中的罪人，并使他们成为圣人。无论教会的传统或教派的教条如何教导我们的教会成员，因为我们对基督完成的工作的信心，我们可以知道，上帝选择了我们，并给了我们拯救信仰的礼物。

As we pressed on through our church’s hurt, financial disarray, and a global pandemic, we could rest knowing that God’s irresistible grace means our work in our church and community would never be in vain (1 Cor.15:58). We recognized that God’s prophets had been constantly rejected by the people, yet were faithful to what God called them to do. And so we would commit to the work of ministry and teaching the Reformed faith, even if it meant the rejection of family and friends as a result of our doctrinal beliefs. Because of God’s irresistible grace, we can plant and water knowing that God is the decisive cause of growth (1 Cor.3:5–7).

当我们在教会的伤害、财务混乱和全球大流行病中奋力前行时，我们可以知道神不可抗拒的恩典意味着我们在教会和社区的工作绝不会是徒劳的（林前15：58）。我们认识到，上帝的先知们一直被人们拒绝，但却忠于上帝召唤他们做的事情。因此，我们将致力于事奉和教导归正信仰的工作，即使这意味着家人和朋友会因为我们的教义信仰而被拒绝。由于上帝不可抗拒的恩典，我们可以种植和浇灌，知道上帝是成长的决定性原因（林前3:5-7）。

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, we could rejoice knowing that God would ultimately persevere through the saints at CityLights, despite the spiritual and theological baggage we brought. We’d been knocked down, but we’d get back up. We could be struck down, but we would never be destroyed (2 Cor.4:8–10). God would see to it that we would persevere to the end, holy and blameless before him (1 Thess.5:23–24).

最后，也许是最重要的，我们可以欣喜地知道，尽管我们带来了精神和神学的包袱，但神最终会通过 CityLights 的圣徒们坚持下去。我们被打倒了，但我们会重新站起来。我们可能被击倒，但我们永远不会被摧毁（林后4:8-10）。神会看着我们坚持到底，在他面前圣洁无瑕（帖前5：23-24）。

Eliot Velazquez is a pastor at CityLights Church and a special education teacher at Taft High School on the northwest side of Chicago. He earned an MA in education from Northeastern Illinois University and an MEd in education from American College of Education. He and his wife, Michelle, have three children, with another on the way.

Eliot Velazquez 是 CityLights 教会的牧师，也是芝加哥西北区塔夫特高中的特殊教育教师。他获得了伊利诺伊州东北大学的教育硕士学位和美国教育学院的教育硕士学位。他和他的妻子米歇尔有三个孩子，另一个即将出生。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/trinity-genesis-1/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：How Reformed Theology Is Changing Latinos in Chicago

作者：Eliot Velazquez 

本文简介：

本文栏目：圣经与神学

本文标签：改革宗