Good writers move up and down a ladder of language. At the
bottom are bloody knives and rosary beads, wedding rings and
baseball cards. At the top are words that reach for a higher mean-
ing, words like freedom and literacy. Beware of the middle, the
rungs of the ladder where bureaucracy and technocracy lurk.
Halfway up, teachers are referred to as full-time equivalents, and
school lessons are called instructional units.
The ladder of abstraction remains one of the most useful
models of thinking and writing ever invented. Popularized by
S. I. Hayakawa in his 1939 book Language in Action, the ladder
has been adopted and adapted in hundreds of ways to help peo-
ple ponder language and express meaning.
The easiest way to make sense of this tool is to begin with its
name: the ladder of abstraction. That name contains two nouns.
The first is ladder, a specific tool you can see, hold with your
hands, and climb. It involves the senses. You can do things with it.
Put it against a tree to rescue your cat Voodoo. The bottom of the
ladder rests on concrete language. Concrete is hard, which is why
when you fall off the ladder from a high place, you might break
your foot. Your right foot. The one with the spider tattoo.
The second noun is abstraction. You can't eat it or smell it or measure it. Itis not easy to use as a case study: I'appeals nortone
senses, but to the intellect. It is an idea that cries our for etempt
fication.
A 1964 essay by John Updike begins, "We live in an eraoiga.
tuitous inventions and negative improvements." That languages
general and abstract, near the top of the ladder. It provokes ou
thinking, but what concrete evidence leads Updike to his concu
sion? The answer is in his second sentence:
"Consider the beer
can." To be even more specific, Updike complained that the in-
vention of the pop-top ruined the aesthetic experience of open-
ing a can of beer. Pop-top and beer rest at the bottom of the
ladder, aesthetic experience at the top.
We learned this language lesson in kindergarten when we
played show-and-tell. When we showed the class our 1957
Mickey Mantle baseball card, we were at the bottom of the lad-
der. When we told the class about what a great season Mickey had
in 1956, we started to climb the ladder, toward the meaning of
greatness.
Here's Updike again in his novel Marry Me:
Outside their bedroom windows, beside the road, stood a giant
elm, one of the few surviving in Greenwood. New leaves were
curled in the moment after the bud unfolds, their color sallow, a
dusting, a veil not yet dense enough to conceal the anatomy of
branches. The branches were sinuous, stately, constant: an inex-
haustible comfort to her eyes. Of all things accessible to Ruth's vi-
sion the elm most nearly persuaded her of a cosmic benevolence.
If asked to picture God, she would have pictured this tree.
Just as he moved down the ladder from "gratuitous inventions"
"beer can," here Updike goes the other way, gaining the alti-
tude of meaning by climbing this
"giant elm" toward
"cosmic
benevolence."
Carolyn Matalene, an influential writing teacher from South
Carolina, taught me that when I write prose that the reader can
neither see nor understand, I'm probably trapped halfway up the ladder. What does language look like from that halfway vantage
point? Let me answer with a story about one of my favorite
schools in Florida, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Elementary. Since
1992 the teachers have dedicated themselves to helping every
child learn to write. During a workshop there, I asked the princi-
pal if the school had developed a mission statement. She sent a
helper to fetch a fancy, laminated page:
Our mission is to improve student achievement and thereby pre-
pare students for continued learning in middle school and high
school. This learning community will accomplish this mission
by developing and implementing world class learning systems.
Alignment will be monitored by continual application of quality
principles and responsiveness to customer expectations.
I'm not making this up. I've got the original in my office if you'd
like to see it. How did it wind up in my office? In an act of vigi-
lante dedication to good writing, I stole it. Before long, the prin-
cipal sent me a little card with the new mission statement, this
one free of jargon and numbing bureaucratic language. It reads:
"Our mission: Learning to write, writing to learn." Because I love
the teachers and the principal, I proclaim this the greatest revi-
sion of the twentieth century.
One of America's finest baseball writers, Thomas Boswell,
wrote in an essay on the aging of athletes:
The cleanup crews come at midnight, creeping into the ghostly
quarter-light of empty ballparks with their slow-sweeping
brooms and languorous, sluicing hoses. All season, they remove
the inanimate refuse of a game. Now, in the dwindling days of
September and October, they come to collect baseball souls.
Age is the sweeper, injury his broom.
Mixed among the burst beer cups and the mustard-smeared
wrappers headed for the trash heap, we find old friends who are The abstract
"inanimate refuse" soon becomes visible as "burst
beer cups" and
"mustard-smeared wrappers." And those cleanup
crews with their very real brooms and hoses transmogrify into
grim reapers in search of
"baseball souls."
Metaphors and similes help us understand abstractions
through comparison with concrete things.
"Civilization is a
stream with banks,"
wrote Will Durant in LIFE magazine, work-
ing both ends of the ladder. "The stream is sometimes filled with
blood from people killing, stealing, shouting and doing the
things historians usually record, while on the banks, unnoticed,
people build homes, make love, raise children, sing songs, write
poetry and even whittle statues. The story of civilization is the
story of what happened on the banks. Historians are pessimists
because they ignore the banks for the river."
Two questions will help you make this tool work.
"Can you
give me an example?" will drive the speaker down the ladder. But
"What does that mean?" will carry him aloft. WORKSHOP
1. Read with the distinction between abstract and concrete
in your head. Be alert to moments when you need an example, or
when you want to reach for a higher meaning. Notice if the level
of language moves from the concrete to the more abstract.
2. Find essays and reports about bureaucracy and public pol-
icy that seem stuck in the middle of the ladder of abstraction.
What kind of reporting or research would be necessary to climb
down or up, to help the reader see or understand?
3. Listen to song lyrics to hear how the language moves on
the ladder of abstraction.
«Freedom's just another word for
nothin' left to lose." Or
"War, what is it good for, absolutely
nothin" Or "Give me a sista, I can't resist her, red beans and rice didn't miss her." Notice how concrete words and images in music
express abstractions such as love, hope, lust, and fear.
4. Read several of your stories and describe, in three words or
less, what each story is really about. Is it about friendship, loss,
legacy, betrayal? Are there ways to make such higher meanings
clearer to the reader by being even more specific?
