‘Hamilton’: Healing Balm for Restless Immigrants
《汉密尔顿》治愈不安的移民的药膏

AUGUST 16, 2018  |  MOSES Y. LEE


When I took my wife to watch Hamilton for our anniversary, I didn’t expect to have the idols of my heart exposed and my life as an immigrant retold from the perspective of one of America’s founding fathers. And despite having read about the Reformed evangelical faith of Alexander and Eliza Hamilton in Ron Chernow’s biography, I didn’t anticipate the musical would portray the gospel so movingly.

当我在结婚纪念日带妻子去看《汉密尔顿》时，我没有想到我心中的偶像会被揭露，我作为移民的生活会从美国开国元勋之一的角度被重述。尽管在罗恩-切尔诺（Ron Chernow）的传记中读到了亚历山大和伊丽莎-汉密尔顿的改革派福音派信仰，但我没有料到这部音乐剧会如此动人地描绘福音。

The surprising redemptive qualities of Hamilton continue to shape the affections of my heart for Christ in ways I never thought possible from a Broadway production.

汉密尔顿令人惊讶的救赎品质继续塑造着我心中对基督的情感，我从未想过百老汇的作品能做到这一点。

Hunger to Succeed
Alexander Hamilton’s humble beginnings in the Caribbean, and later life in New York City, is the quintessential immigrant story. Instructed in “New Light” Presbyterianism by a student of John Witherspoon as a child, his fervent prayer life amazes his peers while attending what would eventually become Columbia University. But the growing spirit of revolution, Enlightenment ideas, and his insatiable hunger to succeed prove too much for Alexander. He increasingly neglects the care of his soul and eventually abandons his childhood faith.

对成功的渴望
亚历山大-汉密尔顿在加勒比海的卑微起点，以及后来在纽约市的生活，是典型的移民故事。小时候，他在约翰-威瑟斯庞的学生那里接受了 "新光 "长老会的指导，在最终成为哥伦比亚大学时，他热切的祈祷生活让他的同龄人感到惊讶。但是，日益增长的革命精神、启蒙思想和他对成功永不满足的渴望，证明了亚历山大是无法承受的。他越来越忽视对自己灵魂的关怀，最终放弃了他童年的信仰。

Without any family connections or a penny to his name in America, Alexander uses his brilliant mind and works tirelessly to become indispensable to those around him, propelling him from the bottom of society to George Washington’s inner circle in a matter of years. As Alexander and the Marquis de Lafayette remark to one another in Hamilton, “Immigrants—we get the job done.”

在美国，亚历山大没有任何家庭关系，也没有一分钱的收入，他利用自己聪明的头脑和不懈的努力，成为周围人不可缺少的人，使他在短短几年内从社会底层进入乔治-华盛顿的核心圈子。正如亚历山大和拉法耶特侯爵在《汉密尔顿》中互相说的那样，"移民--我们完成了工作"。

But like many other immigrants, Alexander remains tormented by an incessant fear of never measuring up to the expectations of others as well as himself: When will it be enough? What will I leave behind for my children? Who will tell my story when I’m gone?

但是，像其他许多移民一样，亚历山大仍然被一种不断的恐惧所折磨着，他担心自己永远达不到别人和自己的期望。什么时候才算够？我将为我的孩子留下什么？当我离开时，谁来讲述我的故事？

Self-Destructive Striving
If immigrant parents tend to overwork and neglect their families, then Alexander’s adult life is all too typical. As his wife, Eliza, says to him in Hamilton, “Why do you write like you’re running out of time? Come back to bed. That would be enough.”

自我毁灭式的奋斗
如果移民父母倾向于过度工作和忽视家庭，那么亚历山大的成年生活就太典型了。正如他的妻子伊丽莎在《汉密尔顿》中对他说的那样："你为什么要写得像没时间了一样？回到床上来吧。那就够了。"

In “That Would Be Enough,” a song for restless, workaholic immigrants, Alexander’s striving heart comes in direct conflict with Eliza’s desire for him to spend more time with the family. He asks her, “Will you relish being a poor man’s wife, unable to provide for your life?” She responds, “I relish being your wife. . . . We don’t need a legacy. We don’t need money. . . . Run away with [your family] for the summer. Let’s go upstate.” But he replies, “Eliza, I’ve got so much on my plate.”

在《那就够了》这首为不安分的工作狂移民写的歌中，亚历山大的奋斗之心与伊丽莎希望他花更多时间陪伴家人的愿望发生了直接冲突。他问她："你会不会津津乐道于做一个穷人的妻子，无法养活自己？" 她回答说："我乐于做你的妻子。. . 我们不需要遗产。我们不需要钱。. . . 和[你的家人]一起逃亡一个夏天。让我们去北部。" 但他回答说："伊丽莎，我有很多事情要做"。

This decision to neglect his family and to neglect rest proves his downfall, resulting in one of the first public sex scandals involving a major American politician. If that wasn’t enough, Alexander’s eldest son inherits his insecurities and dies in a duel just a few years later, trying to protect his father’s reputation. This series of events nearly crushes Alexander and Eliza’s marriage, and Alexander is finally forced to “rest” and withdraw from public life.

这个忽视家庭和忽视休息的决定证明了他的堕落，导致了涉及美国主要政治家的第一批公开性丑闻之一。如果这还不够，亚历山大的长子继承了他的不安全感，并在几年后死于一场决斗，试图保护他父亲的声誉。这一系列事件几乎粉碎了亚历山大和伊丽莎的婚姻，亚历山大最终被迫 "休息"，退出了公共生活。

Beautiful Forgiveness
Whereas many married couples would find such devastating events as grounds for divorce, in this season of suffering the strength and beauty of Eliza’s character—and Dutch Reformed faith—shines. Hamilton poignantly captures the redemption of the guilt-ridden Alexander and heartbroken Eliza in the song “It’s Quiet Uptown.” The choir subtly alludes to the gospel’s power of grace and forgiveness: “There are moments that the words don’t reach. There is a grace too powerful to name. We push away what we can never understand. We push away the unimaginable.”

美丽的宽恕
虽然许多已婚夫妇会认为这种毁灭性的事件是离婚的理由，但在这个痛苦的季节，伊莱莎的性格--荷兰归正会的信仰--的力量和美感闪耀。汉密尔顿在 "上城很安静 "这首歌中凄美地捕捉到了内疚的亚历山大和伤心的伊丽莎的救赎。唱诗班巧妙地暗示了福音的恩典和宽恕的力量。"有一些时刻，语言无法达到。有一种恩典强大到无法命名。我们推开我们永远无法理解的东西。我们推开了无法想象的东西"。

At the feet of the crucified Savior, Eliza receives the strength to forgive her husband. The choir narrates, “They’re standing in the garden. Alexander by Eliza’s side. She takes his hand [and forgives him]. . . . Forgiveness. Can you imagine?”

在被钉死的救主脚下，伊丽莎得到了原谅她丈夫的力量。唱诗班叙述道："他们站在花园里。亚历山大在伊莱莎的身边。她拉着他的手[并原谅了他]。. . 宽恕。你能想象吗？"

Alexander’s childhood faith is rekindled as a direct result of Eliza’s forgiveness. He finally finds the rest his wife wanted for him all along. Having received the gift of forgiveness and rest in Christ, he commits his family to the historic Trinity Church and quietly settles down in Upper Manhattan.

由于伊丽莎的宽恕，亚历山大的童年信仰被重新点燃，这是伊丽莎宽恕的直接结果。他终于找到了他妻子一直想让他得到的休息。在接受了基督的宽恕和安息的礼物后，他把他的家庭交给了历史悠久的三一教堂，并在上曼哈顿悄悄地定居下来。

Redeeming Alexander’s Premature Death
In Hamilton, despite Alexander’s sincere attempts to stay away from public life, Alexander’s life is cut short when he dies in a duel with the infamous Aaron Burr, the grandson of Jonathan Edwards. Eyewitnesses to the duel have noted that Alexander shot up in the air to express his desire for reconciliation with Burr. But Burr, the grandson of a preacher who spoke so powerfully of the beauty of forgiveness in Christ, did not reciprocate. Yet as if to quell any doubt concerning the sincerity of his faith, Alexander declares on his deathbed: “I have tender reliance on the mercy of the Almighty, through the merits of the Lord Jesus.”

赎回亚历山大的早逝
在《汉密尔顿》中，尽管亚历山大真诚地试图远离公共生活，但当他与乔纳森-爱德华兹的孙子、臭名昭著的亚伦-伯尔决斗时，亚历山大的生命被缩短了。决斗的目击者指出，亚历山大向空中开枪，以表达他对与伯尔和解的渴望。但伯尔，这位曾大力宣扬基督里宽恕之美的传教士的孙子，并没有做出回应。然而，亚历山大在临终前宣称，似乎是为了消除对其信仰的诚意的任何怀疑，他说 "我通过主耶稣的功劳，温柔地依赖全能者的怜悯。"

The story continues from the perspective of Eliza, who goes on to live another 50 years. After mourning her husband’s loss, she commits her life to retelling his story and continuing his abolitionist work. She even establishes the first private orphanage in New York City, in loving memory of her orphaned husband.

故事从伊丽莎的角度继续，她又活了50年。在哀悼她丈夫的离去后，她致力于重述他的故事并继续他的废奴主义工作。她甚至在纽约市建立了第一家私人孤儿院，以爱的方式纪念她的孤儿丈夫。

Hamilton is a poignant reminder of the futility of striving and the redemptive power of forgiveness. Despite all of Eliza’s encouragements for Alexander to rest, the self-destructive nature of striving eventually caught up with him. But forgiveness begets forgiveness.

汉密尔顿深刻地提醒人们，努力是徒劳的，而宽恕具有救赎的力量。尽管伊莱莎鼓励亚历山大休息，但奋斗的自我毁灭性质最终使他陷入困境。但宽恕会带来宽恕。

Hamilton is a poignant reminder of the futility of striving and the redemptive power of forgiveness.
汉密尔顿》深刻地提醒了人们奋斗的无用性和宽恕的救赎力。
 
Soren Kierkegaard once remarked that “a completely unsparing confession of sin is the perfect love—such a confession of sins is to love much.” Presumably, Eliza’s courage to forgive and love her husband was rooted in the confession of her own sins and forgiveness in Christ.

 
索伦-克尔凯郭尔（Soren Kierkegaard）曾经说过，"完全不留情面的认罪是完美的爱--这样的认罪就是多爱"。据推测，伊莱莎原谅和爱她丈夫的勇气是源于她对自己的罪的忏悔和在基督里的宽恕。

Further, through Eliza’s efforts to redeem Alexander’s legacy, we’re reminded that our redemption entirely depends on the life and actions of another. In Jesus Christ, the redemption of our legacies is secure. Our names are inscribed in the Book of Life and will not be forgotten. We can rest knowing that even our greatest works pale in comparison to our Savior’s accomplishments—which we inherit by faith. We can rest knowing that we are seen and known, accepted and adored, by our heavenly Father.

此外，通过伊莱莎为赎回亚历山大的遗产所做的努力，我们被提醒，我们的救赎完全取决于另一个人的生活和行动。在耶稣基督里，我们遗产的救赎是安全的。我们的名字被刻在生命之书上，不会被遗忘。我们可以安息，知道即使我们最伟大的工作与我们救主的成就相比也是苍白无力的--我们因信而继承。我们可以放心，知道我们被我们的天父看到和知道，被接受和爱戴。


Related:

How ‘Hamilton’ Reveals C. S. Lewis’s ‘Inner Ring’
Moses Y. Lee (MDiv, ThM) is a pastor at Rosebrook Presbyterian Church in North Bethesda, Maryland. He’s a contributing author to Hear Us, Emmanuel: Another Call for Racial Reconciliation, Representation, and Unity in the Church (White Blackbird, 2020) and is on staff at the Korean American Leadership Initiative (PCA). You can follow him on Twitter.

相关的。

汉密尔顿》如何揭示C.S.刘易斯的 "内环"？
摩西-李（MDiv, ThM）是马里兰州北贝塞斯达的罗斯布鲁克长老会的牧师。他是《听我们说，以马内利：教会中种族和解、代表和团结的另一种呼吁》（White Blackbird, 2020）的撰稿人，也是韩裔美国人领导倡议（PCA）的工作人员。你可以在Twitter上关注他。



原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/hamilton-healing-balm-restless-immigrants/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：‘Hamilton’: Healing Balm for Restless Immigrants

作者：  MOSES Y. LEE

本文简介：时事

本文栏目：基督徒生活

本文标签：法律, 色情, 儿童