5 Foundations That Lead to Compromise on Sexual Ethics

造成性伦理妥协的五大基础

AUGUST 3, 2021  |  BRETT MCCRACKEN
©

Every week it seems new CCM stars, former Christian celebrities, or Christian college graduates announce “evolving” beliefs on Christianity—how their “deconstruction” journey is leading them to reconsider or abandon faith tenets they once believed. Some of these journeys are thoughtful and ultimately constructive wrestlings that result in a more durable, orthodox faith. Others are cynical, reactionary, and result in deconversion. Various “issues” are catalysts for these deconstruction journeys, but in my experience one stands out as the Jenga piece most likely to cause the whole tower of faith to collapse: biblical sexual ethics.

每周，似乎都有新的当代基督教音乐明星、前基督教名人、基督教大学毕业生宣布他们对基督教的信仰“进化”了，他们如何踏上一条“解构”之旅，引导他们重估或放弃他们曾经笃信不疑的信条。当然，其中一些人，经过深思熟虑和“本于信以致于信”的征战，最终抵达更持久、更纯正的信仰。另一些人则表现得愤世嫉俗、消极反动，最终的结果是放弃信仰。各种各样的 "问题 "都是他们解构之旅的催化剂，但根据我的经验，有一个问题是最有可能导致整个信仰之塔倒塌：符合圣经的性伦理。


In the landscape of contemporary Western Christianity, most roads away from orthodox faith travel through an increasingly populous pit stop called “LGBTQ+ affirming.” It’s a stop that doesn’t just change the route; it reconfigures the whole map. If we ignore, dismiss, or question what Scripture says about sex and identity, it naturally leads to further and deeper questioning of Scripture’s authority and an ever shakier faith. But more and more Christians—even those steeped in Scripture and raised in the church from a young age—are making this move. Why?

在当代西方基督教的版图上，大多数偏离正统信仰的道路都要经过一个人满为患的休息区：“LGBTQ+平权 "站。这一站不仅改变了路线，还重画了整个地图。当我们忽视、否定或质疑圣经中关于性别的内容时，我们自然而然会去质疑圣经，渐行渐远，越陷越深，信仰就更加摇摇欲坠。但是眼见越来越多的基督徒，包括手捧圣经在教会长大的“信二代”们，都迈出这一步，究竟为什么？

Shaky Foundations
Even if all roads eventually lead to the sexual-ethics-line-in-the-sand, they don’t all originate in the same place. It’s helpful to consider some of the different, subtle shapes Christianity can take that at first might seem benign—but will later set up a Christian for compromise.

根基不稳
即使条条道路都通向性伦理的底线，其策源地也不尽相同。换个思路也许会有帮助，基督教做了很多身段柔软的变形，初看温良无害，实则步步惊心，最终陷基督徒于无原则妥协之境。

Consumer faith is a fast track to compromised faith.
消费信仰是通往信仰妥协的快车道。
 
From what I’ve observed, most deconstructing Christians who shift on sexual ethics come from a faith background that has one (or more) of these precarious foundations.

据我观察，在性伦理上玩起漂移的基督徒，解构来解构去，其信仰的根基不外乎下面的一种或几种。

1. Consumeristic
Perhaps the most widespread distortion of Christianity (at least in Western culture today) is a consumeristic orientation that understands faith mostly in self-enhancing, “what does it do for me?” terms. This is church-shopping faith, in which a believer looks for the “perfect church for me” as for the perfect pair of jeans. And like anything else in consumerism, it’s a faith rooted in the assumptions of expressive individualism and deeply oriented to comfort. Faith is great as long as it adds but doesn’t subtract from my life; as long as it has benefits but few costs. Faith is plausible insofar as it doesn’t impede my autonomy or put boundaries upon the “true self” I want to express in my own unique way. This faith thrives in contexts where Christian beliefs aren’t controversial, Christian practices aren’t countercultural, and where churchgoing is a net gain (or net neutral) for one’s social status.

一、消费主义
也许对基督教最普遍的歪曲（至少在今日之西方文化中）是一种消费主义取向，它主要将信仰理解为自我提升，“它对我有什么好处？”。 这是种去教会“血拼”的信仰，信徒遛溜达达，寻找“对我来说完美的教会”，就像寻找一条完美的牛仔裤。就像其他一切消费主义的做法一样，它是一种假想，试图通过消费彰显个性，并深深地以舒适为导向。信仰很伟大，前提是它为我的生活做加法，而不是做减法，带来好处同时降低成本。 信仰很伟大，只要它妨碍我的自主权，不对我表达“真我”设置界限。 这种信仰在以下环境中更容易茁壮成长：信仰基督不会引发争议，实践基督不会产生文化冲突，去教会对一个人的社会地位无损甚至带来拔高。

2. Pragmatic
The pragmatic tendency comes from a good motivation: to be as effective evangelistically as possible. It’s the type of faith that birthed the seeker-sensitive movement, megachurches, the emerging church, hipster Christianity, and various other missional or church-planting strategies. Highly attuned to felt needs, public opinion, and “meeting people where they’re at,” this outward-oriented, PR-minded faith has good intentions—do whatever is necessary to fill pews and win the lost—but often bad results.

二、实用主义
实用主义倾向的动机是好的：尽可能有效地广传福音。  正是这种信仰催生了慕道友导向运动（Seeker Sensitive Movement）、大型教会、新兴教会、时髦基督教以及其他花样翻新的宣教与植堂策略。 这种高度关注需求、舆论和 "哪里有需要哪里有我 "的外向型、有公关意识的信仰，意图是好的——竭尽所能填满教会的空椅子并赢得失丧的灵魂——但结果往往是糟的。

3. Political
When political affiliation and theological beliefs merge, the latter inevitably becomes shaped by—and made to serve—the former. This sets up a situation in which Christians might “change their mind” on some issue for political reasons (either by switching parties or by changing along with their existing party) or be forced to “rethink” Scripture’s teaching on the issue in order to serve political purposes.

第三、政治挂帅
当政治派别和神学信仰融合时，后者不可避免地会被前者塑造——并为前者服务。 这造成了基督徒可能出于政治原因在某些问题上“改变主意”（通过更换政党或与现有政党一起改变）或被迫“重新思考”圣经在该问题上的教导以服务于政治目的。

4. Emotionalistic (“All heart”)
To be sure, emotions are vital in healthy Christianity. But an inordinately emotionalistic faith can be shaky. This is the faith largely centered on experience: heart-stirring worship, rousing sermons, the “mountaintop” experiences of spiritual ecstasy. It’s a faith often evaluated in terms of intensity and zeal. If I’m “not feeling church anymore” or if it starts to get boring, it’s a problem. This “good vibes only” faith also tends to avoid contemplating God’s judgment, preferring to conceive of God as an always-hugging figure akin to Santa Claus or Mr. Rogers.

四、感情用事（"全心全意"）。

可以肯定的是，情感在健康的基督教中是至关重要的。但过于情绪化的信仰可能带来不稳定。这是一种主要以经验为中心的信仰：激动人心的敬拜，振奋人心的布道，灵性狂喜的 "巅峰 "体验。这种信仰经常把强度和热情当成指标。如果我 "对教会没有感觉了"，或者如果教会生活开始变得无聊，问题就来了。这种 "只要好氛围 "的信仰也倾向于避免思考上帝的审判，更愿意把上帝想象成一个圣诞老人，总是给人大大的拥抱。

5. Cerebral (“All head”)
Doctrine and biblical knowledge are certainly vital in healthy Christianity. But an overly cerebral faith can be problematic, especially when “right belief” is divorced from, and has little bearing on, the rest of our lives. Some forms of Christianity may rightly emphasize catechesis and sound teaching, but if it isn’t connected to formation and lives visibly shaped by those beliefs, it’s a recipe for disaster. Too many Christians know the right answers but fail to live rightly. Too many churches don’t properly bridge belief and behavior. This disconnect is deadly for a sustainable faith in a changing culture.

五、理性大脑

教义和圣经知识对于健康的基督教当然是至关重要的。但是过于迷信理智可能会带来问题，尤其是当“纯正信仰”与我们生活的其余部分脱节、不再有关系的时候。某些形式的基督教可能正确地强调教义和纯正教导，但如果它与这些信仰的形成和明显塑造的生活没有联系，那就是灾难的根源了。太多的基督徒知道正确答案，却不能正确地生活。太多的教会没有适当地将信仰和行为联系起来。在不断变化的文化中，这种脱节对可持续的信仰来说是致命的。

Cultural Winds
If the construction of our Christian faith contains any of these five structural flaws (or some combination of them), we’ll likely be wobbly when the cultural headwinds blow. And on the issue of sexual ethics, it’s a veritable gale.

文化风向

如果我们的基督教信仰建构在这五个结构性缺陷之上，那么当文化逆风吹来时，我们很可能摇摇欲坠。而性伦理问题，正是一场名副其实的大风。

Here’s how each of the five distortions leads Christians to compromise.

下面说一说，这五种歪曲的基础如何导致基督徒妥协。

1. Consumeristic
Faith framed in “self-enhancement” terms has little pain tolerance. It’s only as strong as the fringe benefits. The minute costs are associated—social stigma, cultural marginalization, strained friendships—the consumer Christian pivots to curate a bespoke spirituality that conveniently eliminates the “take up your cross” part of following Jesus.

1. 消费主义
以 "自我提升 "为框架的信仰对痛苦的容忍度很低。它只有在边缘利益的情况下才会强大。一旦有了代价--社会污名、文化边缘化、紧张的友谊--消费型基督徒就会转而策划一种定制的灵性，方便地消除跟随耶稣的 "背起你的十字架 "部分。

1. 消费主义
用“自我提升”的术语框定的信仰几乎没有痛苦的忍耐力。 它仅与附带福利一样强大。 微小的成本是相关的——社会耻辱、文化边缘化、紧张的友谊——消费者基督徒转向策划一种定制的灵性，方便地消除跟随耶稣的“背起你的十字架”部分。

第一、消费主义

以“自我提升”为框架的信仰对痛苦几乎没有耐受力。它看中的是额外的好处，并与之共进退。一旦需要付出代价，无论是背负社会污名，被所处的文化边缘化，还是与朋友的关系变得紧张，消费型号基督徒就灵活转身，马上定制另外一套属灵策略，很方便地把耶稣“背起你的十字架来跟从我”的命令，抛到九霄云外。

Faith framed in ‘self-enhancement’ terms has little pain tolerance. It’s only as strong as the fringe benefits.

以“自我提升”为框架的信仰对痛苦几乎没有耐受力。它看中的是额外的好处，并与之共进退。
 
This faith won’t long endure in an age when orthodox Christianity—specifically what it says about sex—is culturally, relationally, and professionally costly. Whether because a Christian works in an industry or lives in a city where social climbing is impossible with any ties to “bigoted Christian beliefs,” or simply because a Christian wants to personally break free from the “oppressive” biblical constraints on sexuality, consumer faith is a fast track to compromised faith.

这种信仰不会长久，尤其在这个正统基督教（特别是它对性的教导）要在文化、关系和职业上付出高昂代价的时代。 当一个基督徒从事某种行业，或生活在某个城市，在那里任何与“顽固基督教信仰”有联系的人，其上升通道都会关闭；或者当一个基督徒仅仅想要在个人生活中摆脱圣经对于性的“压迫性”束缚时，消费主义信仰就开通了一条通往信仰妥协的快速通道。

The primacy of expressive individualism and autonomy—the assumed right of each person to be happy and affirmed in whatever unique way they choose—also makes consumeristic faith mushy on the issue of sexual ethics. If the expressive individualist’s happiness is considered a higher good than Scripture’s authority (and for many contemporary Christians it functionally is), then of course Scripture will be sidelined in favor of the self.

这是一个自我表达和个人自主权居首位的时代，每个人都有权获得快乐与肯定，无论他选择多么独特的生活方式，这让消费主义信仰在性伦理问题上变得暧昧不清。如果自我表达所带来的幸福感比圣经的权威更重要（对于许多当代基督徒来说，从功利角度考虑，也的确如此），那么为了自我的利益，圣经当然会靠边站。

2. Pragmatic
Increasingly, Scripture’s clear teaching on sex goes against the grain of public opinion. It’s bad PR. This presents a dilemma for pragmatic believers who want their faith to be salient, palatable, and generally appealing to as many people as possible. What happens when one biblical theme (sexual ethics) makes faith a nonstarter for masses of would-be converts? Pragmatic Christianity makes the calculated decision that ignoring or reinterpreting biblical sexual ethics is the best option.

第二、实用主义

圣经对于性的明确教导越来越多地与公众舆论背道而驰，对公关来说这可不是好事。 对于实用主义信徒来说，这带来了两难境地：因为他们希望自己信仰突出，受人接纳，并普遍吸引尽可能多的人。 当一个圣经主题（性伦理）让那些潜在的皈依者望而却步的时候，该怎么办？实用主义基督徒经过深思熟虑后决定，忽略或重新阐释圣经的性伦理是最好的选择。

This approach is common among megachurches, or in ministries and industries (see CCM) in which lots of money is at stake. If survival means “rethinking” doctrine to better fit where the audience (and the money) is going—versus where the Bible has always been—many Christians will make the compromise.

这种做法常见于大型教会，以及关系到大量金钱的事工和行业中（参见当代基督教音乐界）。如果生存意味着不能再持守圣经的立场，而是“重新思考”教义以更好地适应听众（和金钱）的走向，那么许多基督徒会做出妥协。


3. Political
Orthodoxy does not, and will never, fit neatly into any nation’s tidy, partisan, political system. On sexual ethics, for example, I’ve seen more than a few politically left-leaning Christians steadily shift their biblical convictions because the “package deal” of their political program requires it. One simply cannot ascend to political relevance on the left today without waving the rainbow flag. To be sure, this also plagues politicized Christianity on the right—which in recent years has tended to downplay or ignore the deviant sexual behavior of conservative leaders (even while decrying the sexual ethics of the other side).

第三、政治挂帅

正统教义不会，也永远不可能完全融入任何国家整齐的党派政治体系中。例如，在性伦理方面，我看到不少政治左倾的基督徒在稳步改变他们的圣经信念，这是因为他们的政治方略要求这样“一勺烩”。今天，果不挥舞彩虹旗，就无法左派政治阵营中上位。可以肯定地说，这也困扰着右翼政治化的基督教——近年来，右翼倾向于淡化或忽视保守派领导人在性方面的越轨行为，（即使一边在谴责对方阵营的性伦理问题）。


4. Emotionalistic
A “good vibes only,” therapeutic Christianity cannot fathom a God who would ask, for example, a same-sex-attracted woman to take up the cross of celibacy rather than live into her sexual desires. God is nicer than that, they assume. He would never judge anyone for simply being who they are. The progression tends to be:

第四、感情用事

那些信奉“只要好氛围”的人，那些把基督教当成疗愈工具的人，无法理解为什么上帝会提出严格要求，例如，要求一个被同性吸引的女人背起十字架，洁身自好，而不是活在自己的情欲中。他们认为，上帝比这更好说话，上帝不会因为一个人乱认性别身份，就审判他。如今的发展趋势是：

(1) A Christian’s friend or family member comes out as LGBTQ.
(2) The Christian assumes (or is told in no uncertain terms) that loving this person requires affirming their sexual identity.
(3) The Christian realizes that affirming both this loved one’s sexual identity and affirming God’s Word on the subject are mutually exclusive.
(4) The Christian chooses to affirm the loved one, downplaying or “rethinking” Scripture’s authority on the topic.

1. 基督徒的朋友或家人出柜为LGBTQ。
2. 基督徒假设（或被明确告知），爱这个人需要肯定他们的性别身份。
3. 基督徒意识到，肯定所爱之人的性别身份和肯定神在这个问题上的教导是相互排斥的。
4. 基督徒选择肯定所爱的人，淡化或 "重新思考 "圣经在这个问题上的权威。

The shift is justified by an appeal to the fact that “God is love.” The “love” in that phrase, however, is not the objective, God-defined love we see in Scripture, but a subjective, self-referential love as we define it (“love is love”).

为这种转变自圆其说的借口——“神就是爱”。 然而，此处的“爱”并不是圣经中所教导的由上帝定义的、客观的爱，而是由我们定义的、主观的、自我指涉的爱（“爱就是爱”）。

5. Cerebral
One might think the cerebral, steeped-in-doctrine Christian would be on solid ground in the cultural hurricane on sexual ethics. Not always. What often goes wrong here is a deadly disconnect between belief and behavior. It’s the church planter who has a secret porn addiction, the seminary student sleeping with his girlfriend, the pastor who rails against gay marriage while engaging in an extramarital affair. These are extreme examples, but any disconnect—however subtle—between the cerebral realities of biblical truth and the bodily implications of it will almost inevitably set you up for compromise.

第五、理性大脑

人们可能会认为头脑理性、沉浸于教义中的基督徒会在性伦理的文化飓风中站稳脚跟。但不总是这样。这里经常出错的是信仰和行为之间出现致命脱节。植堂负责人秘密沉溺于色情，神学生与女友偷食禁果，牧师一边抨击同性恋婚姻，一边搞婚外情。这些都是极端的例子。但是，掌握圣经真理的大脑与付诸行动的身体之间，只要出现脱节，无论多么微妙，都几乎不可避免地会让你妥协。

Part of why many biblically literate young people today compromise on sexual ethics is that they’ve seen too many hypocritical Christians live compartmentalized lives—their supposed biblical convictions having little bearing on their actual lives. Over time, “Is the belief really true?” becomes a fair question.

今天许多懂圣经的年轻人为什么会在性道德上妥协？部分原因是他们看够了太多伪善的基督徒过着分裂的生活——他们对圣经所谓的认信对他们的生活没有任何实际影响。


Will You Stand in the Wind?
Maybe you’ve read this and seen yourself in one or more of the categories. Don’t be alarmed. Take it as a warning and challenge to shore up your faith, seal the cracks, and patch the holes, so that it will withstand the storm surge of sexual ethics in the 21st century.

你会顶住罡风吗？

也许你读到这里，发现上面说的就是你。不要惊慌。把它当作一个警告和挑战吧，加固你的信仰，封住裂缝，修补漏洞，使它能够抵御21世纪性伦理的风暴潮。

It’s going to become harder for us to stay faithful on this issue, not easier. Don’t scoff at all those compromising now and think it could never happen to you one day. Audit your faith. Examine your heart.

在这个问题上，我们将更难保持忠诚，而不是更容易。不要嘲笑那些现在妥协的人，认为它不可能有一天发生在你身上。审核你的信仰。审视你的心。

我们在这个问题上保持忠诚将变得更加困难，而不是更容易。 不要嘲笑那些现在妥协的人，并认为它永远不会发生在你身上。 审核你的信仰。 检查你的心。

我们在这个问题上保持忠诚将变得更加困难，而不是更容易。 不要嘲笑那些现在妥协的人，并认为它永远不会发生在你身上。 鉴察你自己的信仰，检验你自己的心。

It’s going to become harder for us to stay faithful on this issue, not easier.
我们在这个问题上保持忠诚将变得更加困难，而不是更容易。

Is your Christianity contingent on anything other than Christ? Being liked? Being comfortable? Being in power? Being happy? Being right? If so, consider that all of those foundations are like shifting sand, and you are the foolish builder of Matthew 7:26–27. When the winds come, your faith will crumble. If you’re like the wise builder, however, and your Christianity sits firmly on the foundation of Christ alone—firm and content on the sufficiency of his work and his Word (however unpopular it becomes)—then the house of your faith will stand.

你的信仰是否取决于基督以外的其他事物？ 比如：被人喜欢， 感到舒服， 掌握权力， 开开心心，保持正确？如果是这样，请考虑一下，所有这些基础就像流沙，而你就是马太福音 7:26-27 所说的那个无知的人。 风吹、雨淋，水冲，你的信仰就会崩塌。 然而，如果你像那个聪明人一样，把信仰坚定地建立在基督的磐石之上，相信他的恩典够你用的，他的话语足以做你的灵粮，（无论世人多么不欢迎他），那么你信心的房子就会屹立不倒。

Brett McCracken is a senior editor and director of communications at The Gospel Coalition. He is the author of The Wisdom Pyramid: Feeding Your Soul in a Post-Truth World, Uncomfortable: The Awkward and Essential Challenge of Christian Community, Gray Matters: Navigating the Space Between Legalism and Liberty, and Hipster Christianity: When Church and Cool Collide. Brett and his wife, Kira, live in Santa Ana, California, with their two sons. They belong to Southlands Church, and Brett serves as an elder. You can follow him on Twitter.

布雷特-麦克拉肯是福音联盟的高级编辑和通讯主任。他是《智慧金字塔》、《不舒服》、《灰色事务》和《时髦的基督教》。当教会和酷的碰撞。布雷特和他的妻子基拉与他们的两个儿子住在加利福尼亚州的圣安娜。他们属于南地教会，布莱特担任长老。你可以在Twitter上关注他。

Brett McCracken（布雷特·麦卡拉根）是福音联盟高级编辑，著作包括Uncomfortable: The Awkward and Essential Challenge of Christian Community；Gray Matters: Navigating the Space Between Legalism and Liberty及Hipster Christianity: When Church and Cool Collide。布雷特和妻子琪拉居于加州圣安娜市，二人都是萨瑟兰教会（Southlands Church）的成员，布雷特在教会担任长老。 你可以在 Twitter 上关注他。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/foundations-sexual-ethics/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：5 Foundations That Lead to Compromise on Sexual Ethics

作者：Brett McCracken

本文简介：基督徒在性伦理上妥协，是由五大基础造成的：消费主义，实用主义，政治挂帅，感情用事，理性大脑。

本文栏目：基督徒生活

本文标签：性, 伦理