Don’t Mistake Transfer Growth for Evangelism
MARCH 13, 2019  |  MICHAEL NIEBAUER

不要把转会人数的加增误当成福音的兴旺
2019年3月13日 | 迈克尔-尼鲍尔


“Our numbers are down.”

Few words have inspired more dejection among American pastors. For many, the emotional ups and downs of their labors are tethered to the attendance figures of Sunday mornings and ministry events. This fixation on numbers plagues churches of all shapes and sizes. Some may acknowledge that such ups and downs are unhealthy—even ungodly—yet they still can’t help being downcast when attendance flags.

“我们的会友减少了。”

很少有话能比这句更毒，让美国牧师们沮丧。他们中许多人在工作中情绪的起起落落，取决于主日上午崇拜和事工的人数。这种对数字的痴迷困扰着各种形式和规模的教会。有些人可能承认，这种情绪波动是不健康，甚至是不敬虔的，但当出席率下降时，他们仍然感到挥之不去的沮丧。

For those who wish to break their unhealthy fixation on numbers, the challenge is answering this question: How do I become less obsessed with numbers while also taking seriously the call to evangelize?

对于那些希望打破对数字的不健康痴迷的人来说，挑战在于回答这个问题：我怎样才能不迷恋数字，同时也认真对待传福音的大使命？

We live in a society in which numerical growth is equated with success. Numbers are the currency through which we evaluate the health of organizations, from cities to non-profits to businesses to, yes, even churches.

我们生活在一个将数字增长等同于成功的社会中。数字是我们评估组织健康状况的货币，从城市到非营利组织，再到企业，甚至教会，都是如此。

One of the first questions pastors are often asked is “How many people go to your church?” Such questions are at least partly evaluative—people want to know how successful a church is, and attendance figures seem to be the most tangible way of assessing success. Here’s the tacit, common assumption: the larger the church, the more successful the church. The pastor of a storefront church is not qualified to publish books on the secrets to successful ministry. Those books should be written by megachurch pastors—so the thinking goes.

牧师们经常被问到的第一个问题是："有多少人去你们教会？" 问这类问题的人，至少有一部分是为了评估一个教会有多成功，而出席人数似乎是评估成功最显眼的指标。这里有一个默契的共同假设：教会越大，就越成功。一间店面教会的牧师没有资格出版关于成功事工秘诀的书籍，这些书应该由大型教会的牧师来写——这种想法挺多。

Insofar as size equals success, when our ministry grows we’ll feel better, and when it declines we’ll feel worse. How might we be set free from such emotional rollercoasters and instead lean into our calling?

鉴于规模和成功画上了等号，当事工增长时，我们会感觉更好；而当它衰退时，我们会感觉更糟。我们如何才能从这种情绪化的过山车中挣脱出来，转而倾心于我们的大使命呢？

Church Growth Is Not Evangelism
Why, though, shouldn’t we fixate on numbers? Isn’t it better if 100 people become Christians as opposed to 10? What about the biblical passages that depict large numbers of conversions, such as the response to Peter’s speech at Pentecost?

教会增长不是福音兴旺

但是，为什么我们不应该执着于数字上呢？如果有100人成为基督徒，而不是10人，岂不是更好吗？圣经中有大量描写众人归信的经文，例如彼得在五旬节演讲之后带来的反应，这又是怎么回事呢？

The contemporary problem is simply that numerical growth isn’t the same as conversion growth. Church growth is not the same thing as evangelism. You can grow a church or a ministry numerically and not bring one lost soul into the kingdom. This is a “dirty secret” of contemporary American church planting: Much of the growth of new churches has little to do with evangelism. Instead, it’s predicated primarily on drawing people who recently moved to the area or those who’ve merely left one church for another. These are examples of “transfer growth.”

当代的问题在于：单单数字上的增长与信仰的增长不是一回事，教会增长也不等于福音的广传。你可以使教会或事工在数量上增长，却不能使一个失丧的灵魂进入天国。这是当代美国教会建立的一个 "见不得人的秘密"。许多新教会的成长与传福音没有什么关系。相反，它扩大的前提是吸引了那些刚搬到该地区的人，或者那些随随便便离开一间教会，前往另一间教会的人。这些都是“转会增长”的例子。


You can grow a church or a ministry numerically and not bring one lost soul into the kingdom.

 你可以使教会或事工在数量上增长，但却不能将一个失丧的灵魂带入神的国度。
 
Growth through Christians transferring from one church to another isn’t necessarily a bad thing. People who move to a new area are grateful to find sound churches where they may flourish. Some churches succumb to false teaching, so it can be a good thing when parishioners move from one to another. There are even occasions in which pastors may send parishioners from one church to another for a particular ministry or calling.

通过基督徒从一间教会转到另一间来实现增长并不一定是件坏事。搬到新地段的人很感激能找到健康的教会，在那里他们可以蓬勃发展。有些教会屈从于错误的教导，所以当教友从那里转移到另一间教会时，未尝不是一件好事。甚至在有些情况下，牧师可能会把教友从一个教会送到另一个教会，以从事特定的事工或呼召。

This kind of growth is not evangelistic, however, and it is imperative for pastors to be honest about the nature of such growth. If pastors lack such honesty, they may take measures that are effective at growing a church but not reaching the lost. The fastest way to grow a church is usually through appeals to people who are already following Jesus. It’s intuitive: The people looking for churches are already Christians. Those who are far from Christ ignore our advertisements, our events, and our seeker-friendly sermons.

然而，这种增长并不是福音兴旺，牧师必须对这种增长的性质实事求是。如果牧师缺乏这种诚实，他们可能会采取有效的措施来发展教会，却无法接触到失丧的灵魂。壮大教会的最快方法通常是呼唤那些已经在跟从耶稣的人。这是显而易见的。寻找教会的人已经是基督徒，那些远离基督的人忽略了我们的广告、我们的活动和我们对真理寻求者友好的布道。

Many books tout ministry success, teach pastors how to identify target populations, or explain the effectiveness of certain advertising strategies, all geared towards maximizing church growth. But in setting numerical growth as the ultimate goal, pastors are subtly wooed into devoting time and resources to persuading individuals to leave their current church for another. Perhaps this is one reason we see hundreds of church-planting success stories in America while simultaneously witnessing a decline of new church attendees.

许多书籍吹捧事工的成功，教导牧师如何确定目标人群，或解释某些广告策略的有效性，所有这些都是为了使教会增长最大化。但是，在将人数增长作为最终目标的同时，牧师们也会陷入精巧的诱惑：将时间和资源用于说服个人转会。也许这部分解释了为什么在美国数百个教会成功建立起来，但同时新教会的出席人数却明显下降了。

Begin with Honest Assessment
In order to break our fixation on numbers, we must begin with an honest assessment of our ministry. Why have people joined your church? You may find these reasons have little to do with your growth strategies. People show up on a whim; they’re invited by friends; they’re guilted by a parent; they’re in the midst of church shopping.

从诚实的评估开始
为了打破对数字的执着，我们必须开始诚实地评估事工。人们为什么加入你的教会？你可能会发现这些原因与你的增长策略关系不大。人们一时兴起才来，受朋友邀请而来，遭父母责备而来，他们是以消费者心态来逛教会。

An honest assessment might reveal that most in our church were Christians before joining. This doesn’t have to be sobering news. I believe God brings people to our churches, and we should celebrate that and help them grow in their faith. We can’t ultimately control who God brings, and we should delight in the privilege of ministering to and alongside anyone God brings. There’s a certain joy in knowing that much of our ministry is to believers coming out of toxic, heretical, or isolating forms of Christianity.

诚实的评估可能会发现，我们教会中的大多数人在加入之前已经是基督徒。这不一定是个令人沮丧的消息。我相信上帝把人带到我们的教会，大家应该庆祝，并帮助他们在信仰中成长。神带人来，是我们无法最终控制的，我们应当欢喜领受，向神带来的任何人提供肩并肩的服侍，因为这是一项特权。知道我们在服事那些从有毒、孤立、或异端性质的教会出来的人，会让我们喜乐萦怀。

But this work shouldn’t be confused with evangelism. We shouldn’t think ourselves gifted evangelists or as having “cracked the code” of evangelism when the bulk of our new members are a product of ecclesial migration.

但是别把这项工作跟传福音搞混，我们不应该认为自己是天才传道人，也不应该认为自己已经“破解 ”了传福音的密码，因为加入我们的大部分新会友都是转会的产物。

At the same time, we shouldn’t necessarily equate a lack of explosive growth with a failure to evangelize.

同时，我们也不应该把缺乏爆炸性增长等同于传福音的失败。

More Excellent Way
Here’s a better question for assessing healthy growth: Who is coming to your church who otherwise probably wouldn’t be active in the faith? This metric, of course, is imprecise, and we don’t want to presume how the lives of others play out. But this can be a good starting point for helping us to see better who’s attending our church, and to understand more clearly what we’re called to do as pastors. If our church is primarily about bringing newly isolated Christians into community, we can learn how to better minister to them. If we truly want to do evangelism, it might mean seriously reconsidering where we’re directing our energy.

更加卓越的方式
要评估健康增长，这里有一个更好的问题：哪些人除非来你的教会，否则不会积极参加信仰活动？当然，这个衡量标准并不精确，我们也不想对其他人的生活做预设。但这可以成为一个很好的起点，帮助我们更好地了解谁来参加教会，并更清楚地了解我们作为牧师要做什么。如果我们的教会主要是把新近孤立的基督徒带入社区，我们可以学习如何更好地服侍他们。如果我们真想传福音，这可能意味着我们要认真地重新考虑把精力投向哪里。

We shouldn’t think ourselves gifted evangelists or as having ‘cracked the code’ of evangelism when the bulk of our new members are a product of ecclesial migration.

我们不应该认为自己是天才传道人，也不应该认为自己已经“破解 ”了传福音的密码，因为加入我们的大部分新会友都是转会的产物。

 
Pastors must also begin to set different goals for their churches. I suggest they replace the drive for numerical growth with two better goals: becoming more skilled at the practice of evangelism, and glorifying God with our presentation of the gospel.

牧师们也必须开始为教会设定不同的目标。我建议他们用两个更好的目标来取代追求人数增长：在传福音活动中操练得更加娴熟，并通过我们对福音的彰显来荣耀神。

The first goal may require reorienting the vocational aspirations of pastors and missionaries. The vocational model for pastors is often derived from CEOs, with books such as Good to Great exemplifying career success.

第一个目标可能需要重新调整牧师和宣教士的职业志向。牧师的职业模式往往来自于CEO们，《从优秀到卓越》等书示范了如何让职业获得成功。

To become more skilled evangelists, pastors should think of their approach to evangelism as a skilled artisan such as a woodworker or a musician might think of their craft. For the woodworker or the musician, perfection of a craft rather than the achievement of earthly success is the goal. Pastors should strive for excellence in praying for friends, sharing the gospel with the lost, and discipling new converts. A church of any size can do those things well, because they don’t depend on numerical growth.

为了成为更熟练的传道人，牧师们应该把传道方式看作是熟练的手艺，如同木匠或音乐家对自己技艺的看法。对于木匠或音乐家来说，在工艺上精进而不是取得世俗的成功才是人生目标。牧师应该在为朋友祷告、与失丧的人分享福音和对新信徒进行门训方面追求卓越。任何规模的教会都能做好这些事情，因为它们不依赖于人数的增长。

Here’s where patterning ministry after woodworkers and musicians is particularly apt: The goal of these crafts is not success, but the joy of acquiring those skills. One does not master the violin to become wealthy, though such skills may lead to financial success. We develop such skills because there are unique joys in playing the violin. A violinist can delight in mastering a portion of the Brandenburg Concerto whether performances are done in private or before large audiences.

在这里，以木匠和音乐家的模式开展事工是特别合适的。这些工艺的目标不是成功，而是获得这些技能的喜悦。一个人掌握小提琴并不是为了变得富有，尽管这种技能可能导致经济上的成功。我们培养这些技能是因为拉小提琴有独特的乐趣。一个小提琴家可以为拉出一部分《勃兰登堡协奏曲》而感到高兴，无论演出是在私人场合还是在公众面前。


Pastors often fall into the trap of thinking a lack of focus on numerical growth equals a lackadaisical approach to mission. There are standards for success, but they are related to faithfully doing evangelism, rather than the measurable outcomes of evangelism. We can’t control who shows up to our church, but we can control whether or not we do evangelism. We must evaluate the things we actually control—our dutifulness in engaging lost people, our steadfastness in prayer and fasting for them, and our diligence in working to present the gospel clearly. We’ll discover deep joy in evangelism as it grows us in the grace of Christ.

牧师们常常落入一个误区，认为不关注数字增长就等于对宣教缺乏热情。成功是有标准的，但这些标准与忠实地传福音有关，而不是传福音的果子数量。我们无法控制谁会来我们的教会，但可以控制我们是否在传讲福音。我们必须评估实际掌控的事情——在与失丧之人接触时是否尽责，在为别人祷告和禁食时是否坚定，在努力明确地传讲福音时是否勤奋。我们会在传福音的过程中发现深深的喜悦，因为它使我们在基督的恩典中成长。
 
This leads to the second goal of evangelism: to glorify God by consistently telling others about Christ. We can accomplish this goal whether our efforts lead to mass conversions or none at all. We glorify God by carrying out the craft of evangelism to the best of our abilities, and our reward is not external success but the internal delight of drawing near to God. Read the great proclamations of Peter and Stephen in Acts, and you’ll see expertly crafted speeches meant to stir sinful hearts to repentance and belief in Christ. One speech ends in thousands coming to Christ, the other to a stoning. Yet, in his stoning Stephen receives a vision of Christ’s glory. God is glorified in both events.

这就引出了传福音的第二个目标：通过不断向他人介绍基督来荣耀上帝。无论我们的努力是否导致大批人信主，我们都能实现这一目标。我们通过尽最大努力开展传福音的工作来荣耀上帝，我们的回报不是外部的成功，而是接近上帝的内在喜悦。阅读《使徒行传》中彼得和司提反的伟大演讲，你会看到匠心独具的发言，旨在激动罪人的心，使其悔改并相信基督。一个演讲的结果是成千上万的人归向基督，另一个则是被罪人用石头打死。然而，在司提反被处死的过程中，他看到了基督荣耀的异象。神在这两个事件中都得到了荣耀。

Pastors are tempted to fancy themselves a Peter when the demands of evangelism may call them to be a Stephen. We cannot start with numerical success and retrofit a growth strategy for our churches. We must begin with the simple tasks of prayer and telling others about Jesus.  

当福音要求牧师们成为司提反时，他们很容易把自己看成是彼得。我们改进教会增长策略，不能从数目字的成功出发。我们必须从简单的任务开始：祈祷并与人谈论耶稣。 

Practically speaking, this may mean pastors spend more time praying for the names of actual people who don’t know Christ and less time looking over impersonal attendance figures. It may mean empowering those in your congregation who are good at evangelism and learning from them, as opposed to responding to the latest market research about your community. It may mean more time spent on your knees and less time assessing the latest managerial fads.

实际上，这可能意味着，牧师们要花更多时间为那些不认识基督的人名祷告，而少花更少时间看那些不切实际的出勤率数字。这可能意味着授权给会众中那些擅长传福音的人，并向他们学习，而不是回应片区的最新市场调查。这可能意味着花更多的时间跪下来祈祷，而不是研究最新的管理学时尚秘辛。

We can’t control the responses of people with whom we share the gospel. Numerical growth may come, or it may not—God builds the church. Pastors must focus on ministering to those who come and not to those who don’t. In so doing, they may discover freedom from the chains of numerical success, freedom from anxiety, and freedom to enjoy whomever God has called them to reach.

我们无法控制我们传福音对象的反应。数量上的增长可能会出现，也可能不出现——上帝会建立教会。牧师们必须专注于服事那些来的人，而不是那些不来的人。这样做，他们可能会发现从数字成功的枷锁中获得释放，从焦虑中获得解脱，并自由地享受与人相处的时光——那些人正是上帝呼召他们去接触的人。

Michael Niebauer is pastor of Incarnation Church in State College, Pennsylvania, and teaching fellow at Trinity School for Ministry. His area of research is in Christian mission and ethics. In addition to his writings, which can be found on his website, he hosts the This We Believe podcast on the essential texts of the Christian faith.

迈克尔-尼鲍尔是宾夕法尼亚州州立大学化身教会的牧师，也是三一教务学院的教学研究员。他的研究领域是基督教传教学和伦理学。他的著作可以在他的网站上找到，他还主持了 “我们的信仰”播客，介绍基督教信仰的核心文本。

