[Two window workflow keeps target in focus — Zettelkasten Forum](https://forum.zettelkasten.de/discussion/1795/two-window-workflow-keeps-target-in-focus)

[Surfing Structure Notes — Zettelkasten Forum](https://forum.zettelkasten.de/discussion/2297/surfing-structure-notes)

一直在寻找的The Archive教程

记得cc #王树义 老师 #archive #ta

Welcome the little nuts. And that'll maidens. Here we are, we're going to be talking to date, a little bit about structure. Notes This is in response to Graham Weston's. A post on the civil case in dot D slash forms. Structured tags as an alternative to structure settles. And I have to say, I thought This is the well thought out idea and someone who's into. Tinkering with the code and the the presentation is somebody who's in my wheelhouse and I really enjoy that and but I think in this particular case. I have to disagree I think structured notes are far better. Then tags because tags cannot. Handle. Cannot convey the context of a connection.
You know, and I might be wrong, but but I got a sense, reading between the lines that Gramps posts with. The root problem, he was trying to. Find a solution to was the ability to. See a list of notes in the. Structure. That didn't disappear on him while he was surfing around on that, even within that structure, so this woman demonstrate today so here we go this is.
2 window workflow. On the right is a list of structured notes and we're going to start off by looking at this particular structure note. And I want to kind of define.
The way I view structure notes. First and foremost the structure who is just another note. Um can contain lists of links it contain contain quotes can contain. Individual ideas. Can contain? Pdf's. The foot notes, Um my structure notes have footnotes in them. You know the instructional is also just say it's a group of ideas. That are alike. In some fashion. There and the one thing about structural is is that there are non atomic. Make sense they are or. With a point to the links on them are generally.
Atomic links. So, but they themselves are not atomic. They can contain a multiple of substructures, so we have just some structure here and then we have more sub hubs and we have.
Multiple structures. The links can can be surrounded. By various. Types of context. That. 2. The particular link in why it is in this particular position. The other thing that's important for a structured note that it be readable with very little abstraction. We shouldn't have to guess why particular note is in the particular section in the hub and. Lastly, you know the structure note contains a multiple complex orders. Of links to explore so all of these links are ex exploration, or potential points of exploration for the earth good life. Well, no twos serve their these now back to grams.
Problem that he was looking at solving is. In this 2 into Workflow. When I'm going to do is I'm going to launch this particular link. Living a meaningful life into the left hand window. And. There we can look at this link and we can see that there are other leagues. The here. Nancy don't admit anything you want to say. See what what will take a look at this here. I'm here writing is something that must be done with regularity or you feel like it or not of course. There is no way to learn to write except by writing interesting. Yeah, of course. This stuff seems so basic why you would have been in a particular node other than as a reminder. So and then we can go back and we can look at other leagues here.
This paradigm of focus. Ah, yeah, let's This is current project list that I have going. It's part of my effort to make good life restarted skill. Physics, a productivity boom that's interesting as they wouldn't. Physics a productivity first love motion sensor.
Ok get started. Ok, well, you know you can see here that. What I've done is I've been able to explore this particular? Structure node never losing the context of where I'm at, and been able to explore this and been able to surf around and.
Delve deeply into my archive looking at. Different. Note as I continue my exploration never once losing my place and being able to come back. So let's. Let's look at a couple of other structure nodes. This is a another structure note here. And it has several sections in it, and they've been added, You can see some of the days is 2019 20. Different years that these have been added.
One thing I wanted to dress was the ability to change. The Order of these of course, you can just type cut and paste, but you can also highlight particular section and then actually move it. Within the. With any subsection or into another section just by letting him moving, it there. Ok so let's see your wages. Experts take their eye on different things. Interesting.
Ok let's take a look at this one here. Here again we see did the links have some surrounding. Contacts that place them with helps place them within the idea structure of why they are here on this page. And you know, even there's some references here.
Let's take a look at this. Other one. Here mom take notes for future self. Take a look at some of these other notes here. This is a mastering types of ID connectivity. This is something that's really been on my mind lately and I have some. Ideas about. Connectivity and been exploring the idea of. What it means to connect one idea to another idea? Through a link.
How chunking ideas on this is about space repetition workshop lense with that's about? Hello. Well let's see. Or this is a or this is the workshop by 10, did that, then deputy Zack. Head with pretty interesting. In a lot of ways to kind of Pooh Poohed, the idea that space repetition actually. Provides meaningful measurements to learning. Maybe to memorization, but not all, learning, but anyways so that's another story. So this is what I wanted to show you today and I think back to grams.
Idea of using structured tags. They don't provide any context. We don't we're not able to. Please I those ideas within subgroups. We're not able to place those ideas within subgroups were not able to surround those ideas with context that places them within. An idea and we can restructure notes so I'm sticking with structure notes that's it for today and I hope I. Made. Is a bit clear but by that so we'll see on the forms you can find me there and ask questions. Please get involved. Thanks. Bye.


