4 Causes of Deconstruction
NOVEMBER 9, 2021  |  JOSHUA RYAN BUTLER

解构主义的四个成因
2021年11月9日 | 约书亚-莱恩-巴特勒

Deconstruction is a symptom, not the root cause.

A proper diagnosis is important because—to continue the medical analogy—each underlying condition has a different cure.

解构主义是一种症状，而不是根本成因。

正确诊断很关键，因为用医学上的话说，每种潜在的疾病都有不同疗法。

I’ve walked as a pastor with many wrestling with deconstruction. While not exhaustive, these are the four most common root causes I’ve seen. Let’s look at the gospel’s treatment plan for each.

作为跟解构主义近身肉搏的牧师，我总结出它的四个常见成因，虽非囊括全部，让我们来看一看福音书对每一种病的治疗方案。

1. Church Hurt
Many who deconstruct have been wounded by abusive or manipulative church leaders, or generally unhealthy church cultures. Often these relationships were intimate and formative: the pastor you grew up with, the mentor you trusted. For others, the relationships are more distant. You grew up under the influence of leaders like Ravi Zacharias, Carl Lentz, or Mark Driscoll—whose teaching and charisma powerfully inspired you and formatively shaped you—but then the curtain got pulled back. The betrayal can make the whole thing look like a sham. The pain can be excruciating and disorienting.

第一、教会的伤害

许多持结构主义立场的人都因遭遇过教会领袖的属灵虐待或操控，或因浸淫在不健康的教会文化中，而受到伤害。这些伤害往往来自于朝夕相处的亲密关系：伴你成长的牧师、你信任的导师。还有一些人被八竿子打不着的关系所伤害，你在那些后来跌倒的领袖像Ravi Zacharias、Carl Lentz、Mark Driscoll的影响下长大——他们的教导和魅力深深激励了你，使你成为今天的自己，但后来大幕拉开。他们的背叛让一切看起来像个骗局。这种痛苦往往糟糕透顶，让人迷失方向。

It’s easier to throw the baby out with the bathwater when you feel like you’ve been drowning.

Church hurt is real. But deconstruction is a false cure.

The gospel’s remedy is lament. The psalms often protest mistreatment at the hands of God’s people and petition for his justice. David—who wrote a majority of the psalms—experienced abusive leadership firsthand from King Saul. Yet he sought the Righteous Judge with lament, groans, and tears.

当你感觉自己在溺水，更容易把婴儿和洗澡水一起泼掉。

教会的伤害是真实存在的，但解构主义是一种错误的疗法。

福音的疗法是哀痛。在诗篇中，经常看到神的子民因受到不公的待遇而向神伸冤和祈求。诗篇的主要作者大卫，亲身经受了扫罗王暴虐的领导，但是，他用哀痛、叹息和眼泪到神面前去寻求公义的裁决。
 
You don’t need to ignore the church’s problems to protect its reputation. Instead, bring the problems boldly to God—like David did—and encounter a deeper intimacy with him as you’re honest about your wounds. Deconstruction bypasses this deeper healing. It’s a shortcut that internalizes grief rather than bringing it before God.

你不需要为了保护教会的声誉而忽视其问题。相反，要像大卫那样把问题大胆地带到神面前，当你诚实地对待自己的伤口时，就会经历与他更亲密的关系。解构主义绕过了这种更深层次的医治。选择了一条捷径，即将悲伤内化于心，而不是带到神面前。

We’re not good at grief today. Much of deconstruction exists because it’s easier to move on than to be sad. But the only true and eternal cure for these deeper wounds is Christ.

我们今天已不擅长哀痛。大部分情况下，解构主义存在是因为继续上路比哀痛更容易。但真正和永恒地医治这种更深层的创伤，唯一的救法就是基督。

The solution to bad community isn’t abandoning community; it’s good community. A healthy treatment plan will eventually involve rebuilding a good church community with good boundaries and good leaders. No community’s perfect, but trust can be rebuilt on the other side of lament, in healthy relationships centered on Jesus and life together as his people.

解决不良共同体的方法不是放弃共同体，而是建设一个好的共同体。为使教会康复，一个美丽的共同体最终将重建，它边界清晰，领袖有力。没有哪个共同体是完美的，但信任可以在哀痛的尽头重建，在以耶稣为中心的健康关系中，他的子民生活在一起。

Diagnosis: church hurt

Cure: grief and lament

诊断：教会伤害

疗法：哀痛和悲叹

2. Poor Teaching
Some Christians have been led to believe they must choose between faith and science, because of poor teaching on Genesis 1. Others have been led to believe God is a vindictive sadist, from a popular caricature of hell. Best abandon Christian faith entirely on account of some dubious or sloppy teaching, right?

第二、糟糕的教导

由于《创世纪》第一章未被很好地讲解，一些基督徒认为必须在信仰和科学之间二选一；由于受到流行的地狱漫画的影响，一些人把上帝看成喜欢报复的虐待狂。因为一些可疑或草率的教导，最好完全放弃基督教信仰，是这样吗？

But if the problem is bad teaching, the solution is good teaching. There are great resources out there (such as TGC’s recent book, Before You Lose Your Faith, and video series “Gen Z’s Questions About Christianity”) and many wise pastors are walking patiently with those who wrestle with hard questions. Good teaching and good teachers exist.

但是，如果问题出在坏的教导身上，那么解决办法就是好的教导。有众多好资源（比如TGC最近出版的《在你失去信仰之前》，以及视频系列《Z世代对基督教的疑问》），许多智慧的牧者在耐心地与那些与困惑搏斗的人同行。好教导和好教师是存在的。

Jesus is the best model of replacing bad teaching with good teaching. I love his refrain in the Sermon on the Mount: “You have heard it said . . . but I say” (Matt. 5–7). Jesus deconstructs bad teaching in order to reconstruct good teaching. Not all deconstruction is bad.

Jesus deconstructs bad teaching in order to reconstruct good teaching.

怎样用好教导取代坏教导，耶稣立下了最佳榜样。我喜欢他在“登山宝训”中的一个句式：“你们听见有话说......只是我告诉你们”（马太福音5-7）。耶稣解构了坏教导，以便重建好教导。不是所有的解构都是一无是处。
 
The bad form of deconstruction, as my friend Seth Troutt pointed out, is epitomized by the serpent’s question in the Garden: Did God really say? (Gen. 3). The enemy wants us to break trust with God and distance ourselves from him and his people. This is the way of most deconstruction today.

正如我的朋友Seth Troutt所指出的，伊甸园中蛇提的问题就是一种坏的解构：“神岂是真说？ ”（创世纪3）。仇敌想让我们打破与神之间的信任，跟神和神的子民保持距离。这就是今天大多数解构的套路。

Jesus shows us a better way. In contrast to the serpent’s question, Jesus proclaims: You have heard it said . . . but I say. The serpent’s goal is to break trust; Jesus’s goal is to build trust. The serpent’s goal is to distance us from God; Jesus’s goal is to draw us closer to God.

耶稣向我们展示了一种更好的方式。与蛇的问题相反，耶稣宣称“你们听见有话说......只是我告诉你们”，蛇的目标是破坏信任；耶稣的目标是建立信任。蛇的目标是使我们远离上帝；耶稣的目标是使我们更接近上帝。

Some mistakenly think Jesus is critiquing the Old Testament when he says “You have heard it said.” But Jesus loves his Hebrew Bible. He’s constantly saying things like, “It is written,” “Have you not read?” and “I have come not to abolish the Scriptures but to fulfill them.” Jesus has a higher view of the Old Testament than most of us do.

有些人错误地认为耶稣说 “你们听见有话说”是在批评旧约。但耶稣爱希伯来圣经，他不断地说：“经上记着说”，“你们没有读过吗？”，“莫想我来要废掉律法和先知。我来不是要废掉，乃是要成全。”耶稣对旧约的看法远高过我们大多数人。

Jesus is critiquing not the Scriptures, but faulty traditions and insufficient interpretations. Not much has changed. Inaccurate caricatures and misreadings of Scripture are everywhere today, even promoted within some churches. 

耶稣批评的不是经文，而是错谬的传统和不充分的解经。 今天，依然没有太大变化，不准确的漫画和对圣经的误读随处可见，甚至在一些教会中也有所宣传。

We need to take good teaching seriously. Our refrain should be, You have heard it said, but Jesus says. . . . I’ve written books on hell, judgment, holy war, sacrifice, wrath, and atonement, and I’m writing one on sex and gender. I’m often trying to confront popular caricatures of the Christian faith and replace them with a healthy, biblical, historic understanding. That’s one of TGC’s goals, too.

我们需要认真对待好教导。我们应该像重复副歌一样把这话挂在嘴边：“你们听见有话说，但是耶稣说…….”我写过关于地狱、审判、圣战、牺牲、愤怒和赎罪的书，我还在写一本关于性和性别的书。我常常试着正面应对那些漫画基督教信仰的流行文化，并用健康的、合乎圣经的、基于历史的理解来取而代之。这也是TGC的目标之一。

Today’s deconstruction allows bad teaching to have the last word. It rejects a distorted vision and misses an encounter with the real thing: the living God. Such a “remedy” kills the very patients it seeks to cure, distancing them from the pure medicine (in Christ) that alone can truly heal. The gospel’s treatment plan, meanwhile, does not simply ditch bad teaching, but replaces it with good teaching.

今天的解构主义让坏教导说了算。它拒绝了被人曲解的异象，错过了与真实永生的神相遇。这种“疗法”杀死了它试图治愈的病人，使他们远离了真正可以治愈的（在基督里）道地药材。福音的治疗方案不是简单地抛弃坏教导，而是换上好教导。

Diagnosis: bad teaching

Cure: good teaching

诊断：坏教导

治疗：好教导

3. Desire to Sin
Some deconstruct out of a desire to justify their sin. Many friends in ministry have suddenly had “big questions about God”—then proceeded to quickly deconstruct their faith. So many times, it later comes out they’d been having an affair that started well before their deconstruction began.

第三、恋慕罪

有些人奉行解构主义是渴望为自己的罪开脱。许多参与事奉的朋友突然有了 “关于上帝的重大疑问”——然后迅速解构了他们的信仰。很多时候，到后来才发现他们在解构之前就已经移情别恋。

I minister in a college town (go ASU Sun Devils) where students regularly deconstruct when they’ve started sleeping with their girlfriend or boyfriend. Convenient timing. Others deconstruct while harboring an addiction (drugs, alcohol, porn), to release their guilt.

我在一个大学城做名为“退去吧，亚利桑那州立大学太阳恶魔”（go ASU Sun Devils）的事工，那里的学生经常在与恋爱对象睡觉时解构信仰，时间上很凑巧，是吧？还有一些人在毒瘾、酒瘾、色情瘾发作时开始解构，以释放内心的罪恶感。

Deconstruction here is usually presented as an anguishing process of honest wrestling (“I just don’t understand why God won’t show up and answer me”). It casts the questioner as the hero grappling authentically with a God too distant to trust or too difficult to believe.

解构过程通常被描述成痛苦、诚实的挣扎（“我只是不明白为什么上帝不出现，不回答我”）。提问者摇身一变，成为英雄，一个实打实地与遥不可及、无法信任的上帝摔跤的英雄。

This masks what’s really going on. “What the heart wants, the mind justifies,” the old quip wisely observes. God allows us to think we are “judging” him, when really it’s a form of God’s judgment on us. It exposes how far we’re willing to go to justify our sin. God hands us over to the depravity of our mind, that we might attain the corrupted desires of our heart.

这掩盖了真正发生的事。老话说得好：“心所欲，意拍板”。上帝允许我们自以为在“论断”他，实际上是上帝换了一种方式在审判我们。 这暴露出我们愿意走多远来为罪开脱。 上帝将我们交给我们内心的堕落，任凭我们达成内心败坏的欲望。

If the problem is a desire to sin, the solution is confession and repentance. Jesus invites all to “open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me” (Acts 26:18).

如果问题是犯罪的欲望，那么解决办法就是认罪和悔改。耶稣邀请所有人 “眼睛得开，从黑暗中归向光明，从撒但权下归向神。又因信我，得蒙赦罪，和一切成圣的人同得基业。”（使徒行传26:18）

Deconstruction is poison, not medicine. It supplements the sin that’s killing you, rather than healing it. It allows you to save face, to look virtuous in your departure from God (“He’s the problem, not me”), while distracting you from squarely facing your true motivations.

解构是毒不是药。它在补给正在杀死你的罪，而不是治愈它。它让你保住面子，在离开神的时候显得有德行（“是他造成的，不是我”），同时分散你的注意力，使你无法正视自己真实的动机。

Deconstruction is playing with fire; grace is real and can heal. James offers wise advice: “Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double minded.” Yet he also gives a hope-filled promise for those who would deconstruct: “Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you” (James 4:7–8).

解构是在玩火。恩典是真实的，可以带来医治。雅各用智慧规劝说：“有罪的人哪，要洁净你们的手。心怀二意的人哪，要清洁你们的心。”同时，他也为那些要解构的人指出了一个充满希望的应许：“故此你们要顺服神，务要抵挡魔鬼，魔鬼就必离开你们逃跑了。”（雅各书4:7-8）

Diagnosis: desire to sin

Cure: confession and repentance

诊断：犯罪的欲望

治疗：认罪和悔改

4. Street Cred
Doubt is hip. The desire to fit in with the cultural ethos of our moment is strong. That’s why so many deconversion stories sound like everyone’s reading off the same script—its well-worn clichés signaling conformity to accepted norms.

第四、街头信誉
怀疑是一种时尚。融入我们这个时代文化风尚的愿望是如此强烈。这就是为什么那么多解除皈依的故事听起来像都人人在读同一个剧本——其陈词滥调标志着对公认规范的遵守。

Celebrities are leading the charge. There’s influence to be had, platforms to be built, and money to be made. It gets Rob Bell on Oprah, bolsters Glennon Doyle’s book sales, and lets Rhett & Link host Nacho Libre and Harry Potter on their popular YouTube channel.

名人网红在引领潮流。有影响力可言，有平台可建，有金钱可赚。这让贝罗伯（Rob Bell）上了奥普拉的节目，促进了格伦农·多伊尔（Glennon Doyle）的图书销售，并让瑞德与林克（Rhett＆Link）在他们走红的YouTube频道上主持《疯狂神父》和《哈利-波特》。

A wave of #exvangelical podcasters and TikTok stars are following in the wake, with a whole cottage industry to welcome and cheer them on. There’s clout in distancing oneself from “outdated” views of sex and gender, an “obscure” Bible with talking snakes and forbidden shellfish, and “offensive” doctrines like wrath and hell.

一波#离教者 播客和TikTok明星紧随其后，整个山寨行业都在欢呼他们的到来。想有影响力吗？那就与 “过时的 ”的性观念和性别观说再见，与记载蛇说话和食物禁忌的“晦涩的”《圣经》保持距离，别提神的震怒和地狱等 “令人反感的 ”教义。

I’m not claiming to know the heart of such influencers. Motivations other than street cred can be powerfully at play. I’m simply observing that social pressure is a powerful carrot on the stick—and not just for celebrities.

我不敢说了解这些意见领袖和网红的内心。除了街头信誉之外，其他动机也可能会发挥强大作用。我只是观察到，社会压力是一根大胡萝卜，不仅仅是对名人起效。

The cultural hostility is real. Whether in progressive urban centers (like my hometown of Portland), or university environments (like where I currently live), Christians are decidedly not the cool kids. It’s hard to be the awkward one sitting alone at lunch. Many of us feel the social pressure—and the release valve is a simple Instagram post away.

文化敌意是真实的。无论是在进步的市中心（如我的家乡波特兰），还是在大学环境里（如我目前居住的地方），基督徒都明显不是酷儿。要成为午餐时尴尬独坐的人并不容易。我们中许多人都感受到了社会压力——而解压阀就是一条简单的Ins。

The “cure” here is the crucifixion of your image. The gospel calls you to mortify your love of influence and prestige—put it to death. Jesus warns of those who love “the glory that comes from man” more than “the glory that comes from God” (John 12:43). It’s not wrong to want love and affirmation; it’s just wrong to want it more from your fickle friends than your faithful God.

在这里“治疗”是把你的偶像钉死在十字架上。福音呼唤你克制对影响力和声望的爱——将它置于死地。耶稣警告那些“爱人的荣耀过于爱神的荣耀”的人（约翰福音12:43）。希望得到爱与肯定并没有错，错在只是希望从善变的朋友那里得到爱而不是从信实的神那里得到爱。
 
John warns, “Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in him” (1 John 2:15). The world here refers not to God’s good creation, but sinful patterns that have been normalized in society through our rebellion against God. At the heart of these patterns is our desire for autonomy from God—the very desire championed by deconstruction today.

约翰警告说：“不要爱世界和世界上的事。人若爱世界，爱父的心就不在他里面了。”（约翰一书2:15）。这里的世界不是指上帝的美好创造，而是指通过我们反抗上帝而在社会中正常化的罪恶模式。 这些模式的核心是我们渴望从上帝那里获得自主权——这正是今天解构所倡导的渴望。

Deconstruction can fuel vanity. It can feed on your insecurity, your desire for acceptance, by puffing you up with the hot air of the world. The gospel, in contrast, calls you to “Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you” (1 Pet. 5:6). God humbles you in the eyes of the world, in order to ultimately lift you up with him.

Mortify your desire for street cred in order to experience union with God.

解构主义会助长虚荣心。它可以利用你的不安全感、你对接受的渴望， 让你在世界的热气中膨胀。 相比之下，福音呼吁：“所以你们要自卑，服在神大能的手下，到了时候他必叫你们升高。”（彼前 5:6）。 上帝使你在世人眼中谦卑，为的是最终使你与他一同升高。

为了体验与神的联合，要扼杀你对街头信誉的渴望。

Diagnosis: street cred

Cure: crucifixion of image

诊断：街头信誉

治疗：钉死偶像

Diagnosis and Cure
As a pastor, I’ve found understanding these root causes helpful when walking with people through deconstruction. A proper diagnosis helps administer the right cure.

诊断和治疗
作为一名牧师，我发现跟人们一起走出解构主义的过程中，了解根源很有帮助。正确的诊断有助于对症下药。

It’s a bummer if someone’s dealing with church hurt and you hand him a stack of apologetics books to read. Those same books will be useless if, beneath the surface, he really just wants to justify his sin.

如果有人正在处理被教会伤害的问题，而你递给他护教学书让他阅读，那就太可惜了。如果在表面之下，他真的只想为罪开脱，那么这些书也将毫无用处。

It’s also worth recognizing: people’s real motives will often be different from their stated motives. I’ve had people come to me “with big questions about God,” only to later discover they were feeling social pressure at school or having an affair at the office.

同样要注意，人们的真实动机往往与他们所说的动机不一样。我曾遇到过一些人“带着关于上帝的重大疑问”来找我，后来却发现他们在学校里感受到了社会压力，或者在办公室有了外遇。

Also, people can have multiple motives. Some lingering theology questions, a bad church experience, and a desire for street cred can all stew together in the heart’s cauldron. Being a good pastor, mentor, or friend will require attention to the uniqueness of each situation.


另外，人们可以有多种动机。 一些挥之不去的神学问题、糟糕的教会经历、以及对街头信誉的渴望都可以在心中的大锅里炖煮。 作为一个好牧者、导师或朋友，需要注意每种情况的独特性。

This all implies a challenge: it takes time. Ministering in the age of deconstruction will likely involve attentiveness in conversation, sensitivity to the Spirit, and the risk of investment—knowing the person might end up bailing anyway. Good doctors take time with their patients, and as ministers of the gospel we must too. Yet while wisdom may prescribe distinct treatment plans, there’s ultimately one source of healing we’re seeking to administer: the remedy found in Jesus Christ.

这一切意味着一个挑战：这需要时间。在解构的时代里进行传道，可能需要在谈话中保持专注，对圣灵保持敏感，并冒着投资的风险--知道对方最终可能会放弃。好的医生会花时间陪伴他们的病人，作为福音的传道人，我们也必须如此。然而，虽然智慧可能会开出不同的治疗方案，但最终我们要寻求的是一个医治的来源：在耶稣基督里找到的补救措施。

这一切都意味着一个挑战：要肯花时间。 在解构的时代事奉，可能需要在谈话中保持专注，对圣灵保持敏感，并冒着投资的风险——知道这个人无论如何最终都可能会放弃。 好医生会花时间陪伴他们的顾病人，作为福音的传道人，我们也必须如此。 然而，虽然智慧可能会开出不同的治疗方案，但最终我们要寻求的是唯一的医治来源：在耶稣基督里的医治。

Editors’ note: 
For more on this topic, see Before You Lose Your Faith: Deconstructing Doubt in the Church (TGC, 2021).

Joshua Ryan Butler is a pastor at Redemption Church in Tempe, Arizona, and author of The Skeletons in God’s Closet and The Pursuing God.

编者注
关于这一主题的更多信息，请参见《在你失去信仰之前》（TGC, 2021）。

约书亚·瑞安·巴特勒是亚利桑那州坦佩市救赎教会的牧师，也是《神的衣柜里的骷髅》和《追求神》的作者。