FAITH & WORK
信仰与工作

One Reason We Don’t See Miracles in the West
在西方见不到神迹的一个原因

AUGUST 30, 2016  |  BETHANY JENKINS

2016年8月30日｜贝瑟妮·詹金斯

I was 31 years old when the first of my friends was diagnosed with cancer. She was only 28, and it was her second diagnosis. She had battled breast cancer in college, and now it had returned.

我31岁那年，第一次遇到有朋友被诊断出癌症。朋友当时只有28岁，这是她第二次确诊。她在大学时曾罹患乳腺癌，现在病又复发了。

Walking with her through treatments was eye-opening. In my life, my health issues have circled around having the flu, chipping a tooth, or pulling a hamstring—issues that tend to have simple, straightforward methods of healing and repair. Cancer, I discovered, was totally different. It varies widely—not just because cancers are different but also because bodies are different. As a result, although doctors do their best to diagnose and offer prognoses, cancer patients must be active students of their own bodies and options for treatment.

陪伴她接受治疗的过程让我大开眼界。在我的生活中，健康问题都是围绕着感冒、坏牙或拉伤腿筋等问题，这些问题往往有简单明了的治愈和修复方法。然而，我发现，癌症则完全不同。它在个体上的差异很大—不仅是因为癌症有不同种类，而且还因为每个人体质都不一样。因此，尽管医生尽力诊断并提供预后建议，但癌症患者也必须积极研究自己的身体和治疗方案。

My friend survived and, even though doctors said that because of radiation treatments she’d never be able to have children, she and her husband have two.

我朋友活了下来，尽管医生说由于放疗，她永远不能生育，但她和丈夫最终有了两个孩子。

Was this a miracle, or was it just ordinary medicine?

这是个神迹，抑或只是普通的医学治疗？

Misclassifying Miracles
对神迹的错误分类

Some say they’d have more faith in God if he would do a miracle before their eyes. If they could just see him heal a woman whose body won’t stop bleeding or touch the leg of a formerly lame man, they’d believe. They look to places like Africa or Asia, where miracles, they say, happen all the time.

有人说，如果上帝能在他们眼前制造神迹，他们的信心就会加增。如果他们能亲眼看到上帝止住女人的血漏，或者通过触摸让瘸子行走，他们就会相信。他们把目光投向非洲或亚洲，说那里的神迹一直没有断过。

Do we have less faith than Christians in such places? Maybe. But experience tells me that no one has perfect faith, and Scripture teaches that even those with little faith can find healing (Mark 9:14–29).

难道我们的信心比亚非的基督徒少吗？也许是吧。但经验告诉我，没有人的信心是完美的，而且圣经教导我们，即使是那些信心不足的人也能被治愈（马可福音9：14-29）。

There are perhaps several reasons why we, in the West, don’t see miracles like people do in other places—or like people did in first-century Palestine. Justin Holcomb explores some of those reasons here.

也许有几个原因使得我们西方人不像其他大洲或者公元一世纪以色列地区的人那样看到神迹，贾斯汀·霍尔科姆在这里探讨了其中一些原因。

But there is another reason: We classify ordinary medicine as the work of man, not the work of God. And this is a mistake.

然而，还有一个原因，我们把日常的医疗归为人类的工作，而不是上帝的工作，这是一个错误。


God’s Many Masks
上帝的众多面具

When Martin Luther studied Psalm 147:12–14, he asked himself: How, in practice, does God “strengthen the bars of Jerusalem’s gates, make peace in her borders, and fill her with the finest of wheat”? Then he answered:

马丁·路德在研读《诗篇》147:12-14时，问过一个问题。在实践中，上帝如何“坚固耶路撒冷的门闩，使她境内平安，用上好的麦子使她满足”？然后他回答：

God could easily give you grain and fruit without your plowing and planting. But he does not want to do so. . . . What else is all our work to God—whether in the fields, in the garden, in the city, in the house, in war, or in government—but just such a child’s performance, by which he wants to give his gifts in the field, at home, and everywhere else? These are the masks of God, behind which he wants to remain concealed and do all things.

上帝本来可以很容易就给你五谷和果蔬，而无需你耕种，但他并不想这样做。我们在田间、花园、城市、房屋、战场或政府中所做的一切工作，对上帝来说不就是一个孩子的表演吗？上帝想要通过这样的表演，把自己的礼物在田间、家中和其他地方送给我们。这些就是上帝的面具，他想要隐藏在其中，并在暗中做成万事。

In other words, our God loves us through the work of our fellow image-bearers. The policeman who stops traffic to let the child safely cross the street, the grocer who stocks the aisle with fruit and vegetables, the science professor who introduces the student to the depths of the oceans—each are agents of God’s providential love.

换句话说，上帝爱我们是藉着我们同类的工作。指挥交通让孩子安全过马路的警察，在货架上摆满水果和蔬菜的杂货商，向学生们介绍海洋深处奥秘的科学家教授--每个人都是上帝护理之爱的代理人。

And doctors are, too. My vision hasn’t been miraculously healed, but my optometrist helps me to see. My chipped tooth didn’t suddenly regrow, but my dentist fixed it. God uses men and women working in health care to help me flourish physically. So I thank them for their ordinary work—work that has brought some measure of healing to my body.

医生也是如此。我的视力并没有奇迹般地痊愈，但我的验光师帮助我看见。我缺损的牙齿没有突然重新生长，但我的牙医修复了它。上帝使用在医疗健康领域工作的男女来帮助我身体发旺。所以我感谢他们平凡的工作--这给我的身体带来了某种程度的医治。

Doctors Don’t Heal
医生并不治病

Doctors, though, aren’t the Great Physician. As I discovered with my friend who had cancer, they can try to read the body, but they don’t always get it right. They don’t know the body nearly as intimately as the One who created it. In this sense, all recoveries—even if aided by modern medicine—are miraculous, for God takes part in them. As C. S. Lewis reflects:

但是，医生们并不是耶稣那样伟大的医生。正如我在患癌症的朋友身上发现的那样，他们能试着阅读身体，但并不总能读对。他们对身体的了解程度远不及创造身体的那一位。从这个意义上讲，所有的康复都是神迹—哪怕有现代医学的帮助，因为上帝参与了这些康复工作。正如C.S.路易斯所说：

There is a sense in which no doctor ever heals. The doctors themselves would be the first to admit this. The magic is not in the medicine but in the patient’s body—in the vis medicatrix naturae, the recuperative or self-corrective energy of Nature. What the treatment does is to simulate Natural functions or to remove what hinders them. We speak for convenience of the doctor, or the dressing, healing a cut. But in another sense every cut heals itself: no cut can be healed in a corpse. That same mysterious force which we call gravitational when it steers the planets and biomechanical when it heals the body, is the efficient cause of all recoveries. And that energy proceeds from God in the first instance. All who are cured are cured by him, not merely in the sense that his providence provides them with medical assistance and wholesome environments, but also in the sense that their very tissues are repaired by the far-descended energy which, flowing from him, energizes the whole system of Nature.

在某种意义上说，没有医生能够治愈疾病。医生们自己会首先承认这一点。魔力不在药物中，而在患者的体内—在大自然的治愈力量中，也就是大自然的恢复或自我纠正的能量中。治疗所做的是模拟自然的功能，或消除阻碍这些功能的因素。为了方便起见，我们说医生或包扎可以治愈一个伤口。但从另一种意义上讲，每一个伤口都会自愈：在一具尸体上，没有任何伤口可以被治愈。那股神秘的力量，当它引导行星时我们称之为引力，当它治愈身体时我们称之为生物力学，是所有康复的有效原因。而这种能量首先来自于上帝。所有被治愈的人都是被他治愈的，这不仅仅是指他的护理为人们提供了医疗帮助和健康的环境，而且还指人体的组织被来自他的远古能量所修复，这种能量从他那里流出，为整个自然系统注入了活力。

In other words, God is the healer—not only in the miracles that happen in far off times or places, but also in the miracles that happen at the hospital around the corner. He works indirectly through doctors, nurses, and orderlies—and he works directly on the body to make their work effective.

换句话说，上帝才是那个真正的医治者，神迹不仅发生在古老的年代或遥远的地方，也是发生在街角的医院里。上帝通过医生、护士和护工间接地工作，而他则在身体上直接做工，使医护人员的工作奏效。


This is why Francis Schaeffer, toward the end of his life when he was undergoing cancer treatments at the Mayo Clinic, wrote to his friend: “How good it is to have a theology in which there is no tension between using the best medicine possible and looking directly to the Lord for answer to prayer.” He recognized that God works both indirectly through the hands of doctors and directly through the hands of prayer.

这就是为什么弗朗西斯·谢弗在生命的最后阶段，当他在梅奥医学中心接受癌症治疗时，写信给朋友说：“有这样的神学多美好啊，在使用最好的药物和直接仰望主对祈祷的回应之间没有任何冲突”。他认识到，上帝既通过医生的手间接地工作，也通过祈祷的手直接地工作。

May we be people who see the miraculous in our cities, thanking medical practitioners for their work and giving God the credit.

愿我们成为能在城市中看到神迹的人，感谢医务人员的工作并把功劳归于神。

原文链接：https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/one-reason-we-dont-see-miracles-in-the-west/

译：PSJ；校：JFX。原文刊载于福音联盟英文网站：One Reason We Don’t See Miracles in the West

作者：Bethany L. Jenkins

本文简介：从表面上，疾病是被现代医学治愈的；从深层次看，上帝才是真正的医治者，他通过医护人员间接地工作，更在病体上直接做工。这依然是神迹。

本文栏目：信仰与工作

本文标签：神迹

作者简介：贝瑟妮·詹金斯（Bethany L. Jenkins）是The Veritas Forum的媒体副总裁、福音联盟的撰稿人，以及国王学院的高级研究员。在为基于信仰的非营利组织工作之前，贝瑟妮曾在国会、国务院、华尔街和大律师事务所工作。她在贝勒大学获得学士学位，在哥伦比亚法学院获得法学博士学位。她是救世主长老会的一名活跃成员。你可以在Twitter上与她联系。@bethanyjenkins.