翻譯下臉孫燕姿這封信變成古文觀止風格的古文發佈到推特謝謝

我的 AI

As my AI voice takes on a life of its own while I despair over my overhanging stomach and my children's every damn thing, I can't help but want to write something about it.

My fans have officially switched sides and accepted that I am indeed 冷门歌手 while my AI persona is the current hot property. I mean really, how do you fight with someone who is putting out new albums in the time span of minutes.

Whether it is ChatGPT or AI or whatever name you want to call it, this "thing" is now capable of mimicking and/or conjuring,  unique and complicated content by processing a gazillion chunks of information while piecing and putting together in a most coherent manner the task being asked at hand. Wait a minute, isn't that what humans do? The very task that we have always convinced ourselves; that the formation of thought or opinion is not replicable by robots, the very idea that this is beyond their league, is now the looming thing that will threaten thousands of human conjured jobs. Legal, medical, accountancy, and currently, singing a song. 

You will protest, well I can tell the difference, there is no emotion or variance in tone/breath or whatever technical jargon you can come up with. Sorry to say, I suspect that this would be a very short term response.

Ironically, in no time at all, no human will be able to rise above that. No human will be able to have access to this amount of information AND make the right calls OR make the right mistakes (ok mayyyybe I'm jumping ahead). This new technology will be able to churn out what exactly EVERYTHING EVERYONE  needs. As indie or as warped or as psychotic as you can get, there's probably a unique content that could be created just for you. You are not special you are already predictable and also unfortunately malleable.

At this point, I feel like a popcorn eater with the best seat in the theatre. (Sidenote: Quite possibly in this case no tech is able to predict what it's like to be me, except when this is published then ok it's free for all). It's like watching that movie that changed alot of our lives Everything Everywhere All At Once, except in this case, I don't think it will be the idea of love that will save the day. 

In this boundless sea of existence, where anything is possible, where nothing matters, I think it will be purity of thought, that being exactly who you are will be enough. 

W
ChatGPT
以古文觀止風格翻譯：

吾AI

於吾聲音如生命般變幻，吾愁腹懸臘肉之太腹，兒女雜事無窮，欲詠之。吾之粉絲已改弦更張，認吾為冷門歌手，而吾之AI形象，乃是當前之熱門。真乃，如何與能在分鐘間發行新專輯之者鬥爭也。

無論名之為ChatGPT、AI或任何名稱，此“物”已能模仿並/或創造出獨特且複雜的內容，運算無數片段資訊，然後將其組織整理，完成其手中任務。片刻，此非人所為乎？我們始終說服自己，思想或觀點的形成非機器人所能複製，這超出了他們的範疇，但現在，這將威脅到千百個人工創建的工作。法律、醫學、會計，乃至當前的歌唱。

吾估計，將有人抗議，我可以辨識出差異，沒有情感或變化的音調/呼吸，或任何你能提出的技術術語。然吾惋惜，此應是短期之反應也。

反而，在不久的將來，無人能超越此點。無人能獲得如此大量的資訊並做出正確的決定或犯下正確的錯誤（或許吾跳得太快）。新科技將能產出所需之一切。無論你如何獨立，扭曲，或瘋狂，都可能有為你創造的獨特內容。你並不特殊，你已可預測且不幸地可塑。

於此時，吾感如觀影者最佳座位之爆米花食者。（附註：此情境中，除非此發布，無技術能預測我是何感，然後它就是供人隨意使用了）。如同觀看那部改變許多人生活的電影《無所不在的一切》，只是在這裡，吾不認為愛會拯救世界。

在這無窮的存在之海，一切