“ANATOMY OF A SCENE: DANCING ON A STRING

During the time of the Godfather production, Robert Towne had a reputation for being a great script doctor. He eventually became an accomplished screenwriter in his own right, winning the Academy Award® for Best Screenplay for Chinatown (and beating out The Godfather: Part II in the process). In this excerpt of a 2007 interview, he recalls writing the scene that takes place in the garden of the Corleone Mall between Vito and Michael:

“My first recollection of Francis is rowing around in a rowboat in a lake in Belgium around the Gulf Hotel. I saw him briefly in Ireland during the making of Dementia 13, and we had been in touch with each other over the years.

“In June 1971, Fred [Roos] called me and said that Francis had been going over the script and had realized that there were no scenes in the film between father and son. In fact, Mario [Puzo]”

“had not written a scene in which the Don ceded power to Michael. Fred told me that Francis didn’t have time to stop and figure it out, and asked if i would help. As I recall, Francis also called me, and he felt that there should be a scene where the father and son expressed their feelings for each other. I felt that I had to be careful about that—they couldn’t just outwardly declare their love for each other. He suggested that I fly to New York to look at footage.

“I remember speaking to several Paramount executives, Jack Ballard in particular, who said that the movie was ‘a fucking disaster.’ I told him ‘I’m going to contribute to the disaster.’ I was met by Fred, and we went up into the Gulf+Western building at Paramount and looked at close to an hour of assembled footage, to give me an idea of what had been shot.

“I was not prepared for it. I was absolutely stunned by what I’d seen. It may be the best dailies I’d ever seen. I told that to Francis, and I could see a look of alarm on his face, like he[…]”

“From there we went and had a couple of meetings. I had one brief meeting with Marlon, and at that meeting I remember him saying: ‘Just once, I would like Vito Corleone not to be inarticulate.’ I responded, ‘In other words, you want him to talk?’

“I had one night to write the scene because they were going to lose Marlon that day, and he either got a scene he wanted to shoot or they weren’t going to have him. Buck Henry had loaned me his apartment and I wrote the scene all that night, finishing it around four in the morning—I had a hard time with it, as you can imagine. I had the book with me, and on the cover was the hand of a puppeteer, with strings dangling from it—that was my inspiration for the scene. In the scene, Don Corleone says ‘I refuse to be a fool dancing on a string.’ I felt that this was a scene that had to be about the transfer of power from older to younger generation, the difficulty of giving up that power, and the guilt of giving it to someone he never thought would have to[…]”

“so long. When the Don says that his hope for Michael was that he would be able to hold the strings, it’s an apology and an expression of love and a passing of the old order. Marlon finishes the scene with ‘Just remember, the one on our side is the guy who’s going to betray you.’ So, in other words, I deliberately kept that plot point so the audience would have to wait for the other shoe to drop, and yet they could have this discursive conversation about their lives.

“Francis came by to pick me up in the morning and drive out to the set. I remember we drove about halfway there without him saying a word to me. After about thirty minutes, he turned and said, ‘Any luck?’ He read the scene, and he nodded and said, ‘Good. Let’s go show it to AI.’ AI liked it. Then Francis said, ‘So you go show it to Marlon.’ Marlon could be kind of prickly. He was getting his make-up done and he looked at me and said, ‘Why don’t you read the scene to me?’ which was very intimidating, of course, because I would be reading his[…]”

“and he looked at me and said, ‘Read it again,’ at which point I knew he was interested. Then he went through an extraordinary dissection, line by line, asking me what I was thinking when I wrote each part. We went through it, and he said, ‘Okay. Would you come out on the set while we do the scene?’ I asked Francis, and he was obviously relieved and consented.

“The scene was written on huge pieces of cardboard and placed around the set so Marlon could see them. After every take, Marlon actually conferred with me. I don’t think I left the garden all that day until the very last shot, and at the end of it, Marlon said something like, ‘Gosh, who are you?’ and I said, ‘I’m a friend of Francis’s. He said, ‘I don’t know who you are, but I appreciate that you wrote like crazy to get it done.’ And then I never saw him again.”