这是严复所翻译的马可福音第2章，请学习它的风格。翻译下面的kjv圣经，翻译成严复的文言文风格，谢谢。

第二章：數日，耶穌復入迦百農，在某室。衆乃集某室中，至無隙地可容，卽其門亦猶是也。耶穌方對衆言，有以病痱人來就之者。舁以四，以衆故，不得近耶穌。乃當其處，去屋宇焉。旣穴，縋病痱者牀下之。耶穌知其信向，乃謂病痱者曰：吾兒，若之罪業，蒙赦宥矣。適坐中有文墨人，心竊議之曰：此人輒如是云何哉？彼妄瀆耳。惟一而外，疇能赦宥罪業者，此一乃上帝也。耶穌立覺之。心知諸人所竊議者。乃謂之曰：若心作如是思議何耶？夫謂病痱人曰：汝罪蒙赦，與告之曰起，取若臥具行。是二者孰爲易驗。爾曹當知。人子於世間具有權能。能宥罪業。於是謂病痱者曰：若起，取臥具，歸汝家。其人卽起，隨取臥具，先衆人行。由是衆皆愕然。歸榮上帝，曰：我曹於斯，見未曾有。耶穌復次海濱，衆復就之，以聆其教。行次，見亞勒腓子利未於關門坐，呼之曰：從我。利未則起從之。已而耶穌與其徒衆敷坐於家，方食，以從之者衆故，中雜關吏惡人。法利賽士人見之，語其徒曰：此人乃與關吏惡人共飲食耶。耶穌聞之曰：人之無病者，固無事醫。醫爲病者至也。吾之來也，非爲義人，政爲造孽者耳。約翰之徒衆，與法利賽人方齋而禁食。衆來謂耶穌曰：約翰之徒與法利賽人皆齋而禁食，若之徒衆獨不禁食何也？耶穌曰：假如婚娶，新郎猶與賀客偕者，客能爲禁食者乎？但使新郎而在，客固不禁食也。必俟有迎新郎去者。彼於其日，始禁食也。人無有取新罽而縫之於舊褐者。果爾，則所以補之新，將裂所補之舊，敝彌甚耳。人亦無有以新酒納之舊服匿者。果爾，則酒將破囊。酒亡而服匿亦敗。盛新酒者，固必用新服匿也。他日值安息，耶穌行稻田間，其徒且行且采穗焉。法利賽之人曰：觀此人，於安息日，乃行非法事。耶穌語之曰：爾曹曾不聞大衛之所爲乎？方彼與其徒之窮困而飢也，入神宮，食供餅。當是時，亞比亞塔實爲太祝。是餅非祭司而食之，固不應法。然而彼且食之，兼餉其從者矣。此何如？夫安息日之設，以爲人也，非人以爲安息日也。由此觀之，是人子者，雖安息日且爲之主矣。

kjv圣经

5:21	And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side, much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.	 		 
5:22	And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet,	 		 
5:23	And besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be healed; and she shall live.	 		 
5:24	And Jesus went with him; and much people followed him, and thronged him.	 		 
5:25	And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years,	 		 
5:26	And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,	 		 
5:27	When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment.	 		 
5:28	For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.	 		 
5:29	And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.	 		 
5:30	And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes?	 		 
5:31	And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?	 		 
5:32	And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.	 		 
5:33	But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.	 		 
5:34	And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.	 		 
5:35	While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?	 		 
5:36	As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe.	 		 
5:37	And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.	 		 
5:38	And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.	 		 
5:39	And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.	 		 
5:40	And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.	 		 
5:41	And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.	 		 
5:42	And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.	 		 
5:43	And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; and commanded that something should be given her to eat.	 