Here is the sorted list according to logical categories:

Housing and utilities:

don’t live in a ridiculously high rent city.
if you disregard the above, live with your parents or your SO.
furnished apartments = free money.
W/D in unit = free money.
electric appliances = free money and better health.
fans and space heaters are cheaper than central air.
better yet, live somewhere where you can take transit and not have a car.
Saving money and spending habits:

limit yourself to one drink.
you don’t need Starbucks.
don’t spend all your disposable income on concert tickets and sporting events.
cable isn’t worth it. join the cord-cutter revolution.
don’t smoke (includes weed) or gamble.
you don’t need a master's degree.
subscribe to one of those meal kit things like HelloFresh to save on groceries.
be really conscious about traveling. it’s great but it’s really a luxury and it will always be there later.
Career and networking:

continually update your rolodex.
stay in touch with old contacts, even if it’s just a Christmas Card.
try to get your boss to send you on as many conferences as possible.
always look for better jobs, even if you like yours. can use it to negotiate raises during reviews.
take informational interviews. go to mixers in your industry.
don’t be a super annoying LinkedIn stalker but do offer to get coffee with people and forge professional connections.
Personal habits and well-being:

don’t be super obsessed with video games.
don’t subscribe to anyone’s OF (seriously, why?!)
read books. (or audiobooks, whatever)
use protection.
have a good skincare ritual.
have a job with health insurance, ideally one with a low therapy co-pay.
be conscious of your social media and digital footprint (lol)
a good computer is worth it.
get a gym membership and use it. if you played sports in school continue playing that sport recreationally.
touch grass. be social. put yourself out there if you’re looking for a partner.
volunteer in the community. it’s not just for college apps.
call your mom.
pets are good for your mental health.
plants are also good for your mental health.
Appearance and clothing:

spend money on professional clothing that will last (not only suits, but quarter zips and other things rich people wear) and try not to spend much on unnecessary fashion.
have a professional haircut/general outward appearance. no stupid tats/gauges/blue hair.
Car ownership:

buy Toyota.
pay off Toyota.
keep Toyota.