1908] Lesons Learned ni Translating hte Bible into Mandarin 603

Lessons Learned ni Translating the Bible into Mandarin

YB REV. C. W. MATEER, D.D., LL.D.

A a l o n he t r i t e i n a l e t o p e n p r o p e r translation requires the application of special principles ni its execution. The leading translations into Chinese

tages and its disadvantages, and hte work of translation differs ni important respects. I have ben engaged ot a greater or less extent for nearly sixteen years ni the work of translating hte Bible into Mandarin, having given ot ti some of hte best thought of my life. I have learned some things that I did not

My purpose at present si ot note afew of these things.

.I The Bible si a very difficult bok ot translate; this for two reasons :—

(r). Many of its exalted, moral and spiritual ideas are not found ni the Chinese mind, and of course there are no ready-made words to express them.

Either cumbrous circumlocations or unsatisfactory approx- imations must be substituted, or else new terms must be made. Unfortunately previous translators have been excessively con- servative, afraid ot ofend Chinese prejudice yb het use of new terms, or new modes of expression.

This was probably a At all events the time has now come when need- ful words should be devised and introduced. Every new science or art or faith must bring with it suitable words and terms for its adequate expression. The Chinese have quite ceased to resent such introductions into their language. On the con- trary, the air is charged with them. It is clearly the part of wisdom to introduce into the Bible such new terms and expressions sa are most needed for hte adequate expression of its ideas. They will very soon become known and understood, and the religious thought of China wil be enriched by them.

Other books aer translated with a considerable degree of freedom. Difficult words are modified, or paraphrased yb some

604 The Chinese Recorder [November

convenient circumlocution. This liberty makes translation comparatively easy and the preservation of a clear and forcible style quite practicable. The case si different with the Bible. Previous translations have been somewhat free and paraphrastic, and ni so far easy of execution. Now the demand of the native church is for a faithful and accurate rendering. The precise meaning of every worda n d sentence must be as- certained and then the resources of the language exhausted to express it with clearness and precision.

The Bible is not ot be taken merely for "substance of doctrine," but as the inspired presentation of the truth. The words embody the truth, and so far as is possible, must neither be neglected nor tampered with. This makes the translation at once difficult and laborious. Moreover, the more accurate and literal the translation, the more difficult it is to achieve a good style. nI an accurate literal translation is impossible without sacrificing something ni style and idiom. This si abundantly evident in the English Bible, especially in the Revised, ni which there are many things which would be at once con- demned by accepted standards of English composition.

I I . In the work of translation, Mandarin si more difficult to handle than Wên-li.

At first thought the very contrary would seem to be true, seeing that people who learn Chinese, learn to speak with com- parative fluency, but very few learn how to write Wên-Li with any degree of readiness. The following points may be noted —: (1). Mandarin si always sailing between the Scylla of Wên- li on the one hand and the charybdis of Su-hwa on the other. The boundary between Wen-li and Colloquial is very indefinite. Everything depends on the standpoint of the person. Some who have cultivated an acquaintance with Wên-li forms and phrases, and have aimed ni their specch ot please the ears of literary men, think that nothing is entitled to respectability as Mandarin that is not dignified and embelished by astrong savor of book phraseology and style. Such men would trans- late the Bible so as to court the favor of those who look on the

htere frenourely ild standieot bine htes nga fo the street and hte local unwritten forms ni vogue ni many places. To steer between the two extremes so as ot escape both, si no easy task. tI si worthy of special remark that

1908] Lessons Learned ni Translating the Bible into Mandarin 605

primarily the danger of error lies chiefly in the direction of high style. The pride of literary taste looks down on the language of common life and calls for something more cultured. History abundantly testifies ot the power of this sentiment and points to the danger of yielding to it. When the question of translations tesser ho Conret .ne g o a t dha be en hte experie of hte Bible Society ni this matter. The question at once arrested his attention, and he replied with considerable em- phasis: "In every country having a written language, ot which missionaries have gone, they have yielded to the literary pride of native scholars and made the style of the Bible to high, with the result that new translations had to be made into the language of common life; sometimes more than one before the proper level was reached. The Bible Society has spent many thousands of pounds ni vain through this mistake of translators." The great mistake of the Middle Ages was in keeping the Bible in the language of the learned.

With the Reformation came the translation of the Bible into the

language of the people. It is a cardinal principle of Protest- antism that the people should have the Bible in their own spoken language. The literaty pride of Chinese scholars, with which

unfortunately some foreign

missionaries

pathize, makes the danger of error ni this direction all the greater.

(2). Dialectic variations are oftentimes very embarrassing. Really Tung Hsing ( l f8) Mandarin has ni fact but a limited range of words. It is everywhere ni speech supplemented by numerous local forms. The difficulties of the situation must be encountered to be appreciated. There are not a few words and ideas that refuse translation into Tung Hsing Mandarin, which are readily expressed in more or less local Colloquial. In such

a case the decision should turn on whether the phrase in question is writeable by significant characters, and whether it Preaye coprdascreat ande, hea ulyt most cases is to find out with certainty how far a given phrase does prevail. Mandarin si bound to eb enriched by many words and phrases heretofore esteemed by literary purists

as too local for printing. The tendency of the present time is strongly ni hte direction of widening hte range of Mandarin both in hte direction of Wên-li and of Colloquial.

606

The Chinese Recorder [November

(3). Mandarin forms are more familiar, and at the same time more rigid, than those of Wên-li.

Wên-li as exhibited ni hte literary essays and philosophical disquisitions of modern times, si a highly artificial mosaic of crystallized forms and phrases, very difficult to write, and only possible to those who have had a long training. The attempt to

render the Bible into this style by Dr. Medhurst, while an approximate successs as a literary production, si a failure as a translation of the Bible. As used at present in religious and

scientific books, Wen-li is largely without any standard of style. It is supple to a degree. As handled by foreigners in their translations, it is turned about into every conceivable order ot suit the exigencies of the case (to the disgust of the Chinese), yet supposed to be Chinese. Many, perhaps most, are so un- familiar with its proper standard that they accept as orthodox Wen-li, the jumble of words and phrases that si often palmed off in its name. With Mandarin the case is different. Its idioms and the structure of its sentences are familiar to all and

cannot be violated without immediate protest. Moreover, the structure of a Mandarin sentence is much more rigid than is the case with Wên-li. It will not yield to indefinite manipulation as Wên-li si supposed to do. Its idiomatic structure is too wel understood to be violated with impunity. Its rigidity is often

embarrassing, compelling the translator to go around, because he cannot go across. The fact that it resists manipulation at the pleasure of the writer, makes it difficult to handle. This characteristic, however, contributes not a little to the greater precision of Mandarin.

(4). The multitude of two-character combinations found in Mandarin raises a difficulty which scarcely exists ni Wên-li. These combinations give an almost endless variety of shades of meaning which call for very careful discrimination in order ot accuracy ni translating. Aconspicuous defect ni Giles' Dic- tionary si his failure ot distinguish between two-character combinations having similar, but not the same, meaning. Under many words alist of two, three, four or more combina- tions are strung together and defined as one. Thus, under B wehave官員，官府，官曹，官吏，官長and官夫，all lumped together and defined as one.

The fact si, each term differs somewhat from the others in meaning and use. A good dictionary should give the distinctive meanings sa far sa possible, albeit no definition can eb os perfect as to enable aman to use

1908] Lesons Learned ni Translating the Bible into Mandarin 607

such approximate synonyms properly without much practical experience of their use. The ability to use them with dis- crimination constitutes one of the highest qualifications of a good translator. The Wên-li si free from most of this difficulty, seeing ti uses for the most part single characters whose mean- ings are more sharply distinguished.

This peculiarity of Mandarin introduces another difficulty from which Wen-li is exempt. Cognate ideas are very apt to be expressed by combinations that have the same character as a constituent part of each. This makes it sound tautological to use two such forms in the same sentence or verse. Thus we h a v e 恕 氣 ，急 怒 ，震 怒 ，烈 怒 a n d 惱 怒 ;b u t w h en w e h a v e anger and wrath, or anger, wrath and indignation, ni the same connection, what are we ot do, seeing these combinations with # ni them practically exhaust al the available terms? This difficulty si also ni evidence when translating lists or summaries of virtues or vices ni which cognate terms wil naturally occur. Thus we have fornication, adultery, lasciviousness, uncleanness; and factions, divisions, parties; and long-sufering, gentleness, goodness, meekness. nI al such cases, and they are very numerous, there si serious difficulty ni finding terms that od not interfere. On this account, unusual and often more or less in- accurate combinations are forced into use. It is hardly neces- sary ot say that Wên-li encounters no such difficulty, as hte dictionary usually supplies asufficient number of single charac- ters to meet the emergency.

These reasons fully justify the affirmation that as a medium for translating the Bible, Mandarin is more difficult ot handle than Wên-li.

III. In translating hte Bible there is a manifest tendency ot exaggerate, prompted, no doubt, by an unconscious desire to emphasize the truths of the Bible. Some things are magni-

fied and some are minimized. The good are made a little better and the bad a little worse. If any doubt this, let him read over a number of chapters of the Mandarin New Testament (either Northern or Southern), very carefully comparing word for word with the English, which is for the most part entirely colorless. Love si fairly translated by $&, but there si a constant tendency ot substitute for it such combinations as t & # $, 葱 愛 ，親 愛 ，愛 藜 . H a t e i s w e l l e x p r e s s e d b y 恨 o r 惧 惡 ，b u t t h e s e a r e o f t e n t u r n e d i n t o 怨 恨 ，您 恨 ，忌 恨 . G r a c e o r f a v o r

608

The Chinese Recorder [November

i s 恩 o r 恩 典 ，b u t i s o f t e n i n t e n s i f i e d i n t o 鸿 恩 ，恩 寵 ，恩 葱 ， and so of many others. A conspicuous illustration si Be B in the Lord's Prayer. The Chinese language abounds to a remark- able degree ni the use of terms ot intensify or qualify the leading word. On this account it lends itself very easily and naturally to the tendency

referredot. Infactitisoften difficult to avoid the error of saying too much. Constant care

is required on the part of the translator, lest he yield ot the tempitinot is forel on inion that sais is nash, is, and as far as possible should be so translated.

IV. Existing translations reveal a distinct disposition to adapt the Bible to the Chinese in the process of translating it.

Things that are obscure are made plain by paraphrase or substitution. Things that might offend prejudice are modified. Metaphors and personifications not familiar to the Chinese are expanded into comparisons. Phrases and forms of speech grow- ing out of the customs of Biblical times aer turned about into what it is supposed the Chinese would now say ni like circum- stances. Illustrations of these various points could readily be given, but perhaps ti si not best to give them. This tendency has abated in recent years, but still exists.* It si wrong in principle, and should be entirely and conscientiously avoided. The Bible does not need any doctoring at the hands of trans- lators. The Chinese church are entitled to have the Bible just as it is in a strictly faithful and accurate translation. This they demand of us who translate ti for them. They do not want to know what the writers would have said fi they had been Chinese, but what they actually did say. This is the manner in which the Chinese who have learned English are now translating Chinese books into their own language, and this is very evidently the spirit of the times. The English Bible, especially the Revised Version, si a monument of careful oddeata talenihet amelios tohicarof times heard students when using commentaries, or hearing nad is i sarions pat he Bei had un, expres hteri surpret,

fine tians t i dei po oti heat adopt ni ot od c, dei ot hte fact hte hte The case is different now. The demand of the present mi t e s i o t a B b i e l o f r h t e r i s i n t r e n

1908] The Training and Qualifications of the Literary Worker 609

translated. I have known Chinese preachers when quoting a text which had amarginal reading, saying that the original says so and so, to remark with strong disapproval: "If the original says so, why not translate it so and be done with it?" On one occasion ni our committee, when the question was about giving a metaphor straight, or paraphrasing into a comparison, one of our literary helpers said with vigorous emphasis: " Do

you suppose that we Chinese cannot understand and appreciate a metaphor? Our books are full of them and new ones are welcome." If we do not give the Chinese the Bible as it is, they wil condemn us, and before long wil do the work for themselves.

In conclusion, it is worthy of remark that no one man can make a satisfactory translation of the Bible. There are limitations to every man's knowledge of truth and of language. Every man's judgment is warped in some particular. Every man's vision is distorted ni some of its aspects. This is a lesson we have been learning day yb day and are still learning. If any man wishes to find out his limitations ni these respects let him join a translating committee.
