The cretaceous strata in the Thakkhola region of Nepal from bottom to top, include Dangardzong, Kagbeni, Dzong, and Muding Formation (Garzanti, 1999; Hu et al., 2008). The Dangardzong Formation consists mainly of quartz sandstone and is present above the Spiti Shale. Its age has been established to be Tithonian to Berriasian, according to Gibling et al. (1994). The Kagbeni Formation primarily comprises of coarse volcaniclastic sandstone with alternating layers of sandstone. The lower-most strata comprise plant fossils, while the upper-most unit is characterized by an abundance of benthic foraminifera and bivalves. These fossils range in age from the Valanginian to Hauterivian periods (Garzanti, 1999). The Dzong Formation comprises of two distinct units: a lower unit of green sandstone and an upper unit of black shale. The lower green sandstone unit contains bivalves and ammonites from the Early Aptian period, while the upper unit is black shale contain fossils from the late Albian period (Bordet et al., 1968). The youngest unit in this region is Muding Formation comprises predominantly of greenish-gray marl, sandy marl, calcareous sandstone, and fine sandstone. Based on the foraminifera and ostracod fossil in the lower part of this unite, the age is determined as Late Albian (Silva et al., 1991; Gibling et al., 1994).

4.1.1.2 Northern Tethyan Himalayan zone

The Cretaceous formations in the northern Tethyan Himalayan zone are developed in a sequence from bottom to top, consisting of the Sangxiu Formation, Jiabula Formation, Zongzhuo Formation, and Chuangde Formation. The Sangxiu Formation, which was named and described after Wang et al. (1983) in the Langkazi area, consists of lower black shale and upper sedimentary-volcanic strata. It is found in conjunction with the underlying Weimei Formation sandstone (Wan et al., 2007). The volcanic rocks in Sangxiu have an age range of 141–131 ma (Zhu et al., 2005; Zhu et al., 2010; Wan et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2013; Tian et al., 2021). The Jiabula Formation is located above the Weimei Formation and is composed of the Lower Jiabula rock Formation and Upper Jiabula rock Formation. These were defined by the Tibet Coal Geological Team in 1957. The Jiabula Formation primarily consists of black shale, siliceous mudstone interbedded with limestone, and sandstone. This information is supported by studies conducted by Yang et al. (1964), Wang et al. (1974), BGMRXZ (1997), and Wan et al. (2005, 2007). The fossils from the Jiabula Formation are determined to be from the Early Cretaceous period. Spatially, Sangxiu and Jiabula Formation coexist, but the latter has a wider distribution. The stratigraphic sequence and relationships of the Zongzhuo and Chuangde formations are contentious (Wu, 1987; Li et al., 1999; Wang et al., 2005; Wan et al., 2005a, 2007a; Hu et al., 2006, 2017; Li et al., 2020). The Zongzhuo Formation, established by the Tibet Coal Geological Team in 1957, was officially named by Yang and Wu (1964) later and assigned to the Upper Cretaceous. The Zongzhuo Formation is dominantly consisting of grey, black, and dark grey shales that contain rich calcium and silica. It also contains sandstones and sometimes small intercalations of limestone. The Zongzhuo Formation has a normal contact with the Jiabula Formation (BGMRXZ, 1997). The Chuangde Formation, coined by Wu Haoruo (1987), consists of sediments that are distinct from the upper part of the Zongzhuo Formation. These sediments include a lower layer of purple-red, light green muddy limestone interbedded with calcareous shale and an upper layer of grey limestone interbedded with grayish-green shale. Li et al. (1999)  designated the reddish layers in the Chuangde section as Chuangde Formation which is Campanian in age. Wang et al. (2005) classified the reddish and brownish layers exposed in the Gyangze area as Chuangde Formation. The distribution of the Chuangde Formation is widespread in the northern Tethyan Himalayan zone but temporally variable, occurring from late Santonian to Paleocene (Wan et al., 2005; Wan et al., 2007; Li G B et al., 2007, 2011c). Due to the lens-shaped horizontal distribution of the red beds, several experts contend that these limestones are the part of the Zongzhuo Formation and may not be appropriate as a distinct stratigraphic unit (Li, 2021). This study, in accordance with Wan Xiaoqiao's suggestion, categorizes the mixed deposits from the late Cretaceous period that contain red beds and other colored sediments as the Chuangde Formation. The sediments located below the red bed are designated as the Zongzhuo Formation. It acknowledges that there is significant disagreement regarding the definition and spatial distribution of the Chuangde Formation, which highlights the need for additional research.

4.1.2 Indus-Yarlung Zangbo suture zone (IYSZ)

The IYSZ zone is the result of the collision and merging of the Indian and Eurasian plates, that resulted in the closure of the Neo-Tethys Ocean in this region. It is located between the Lhasa block and the Tethyan Himalayan zone, stretching from Kashmir in the west to Tibet in China. It passes through zanda, Pulan, Zhamba, Saga, Ngamring, and Xigaze, and extends eastwards to Motuo before heading southward and entering Myanmar. Its length exceeds 1,500 km (Wan et al., 2007). The Ophiolite of IYS refers to the ophiolitic lithostratigraphic unit found along the Yarlung Zangbo River. This unit consists of mantle peridotite, cumulate rocks, and pillow lavas. On both sides of the Yarlung Zangbo River, there is an intermittent deposit that includes variegated chert, shale, radiolarian chert, basalt, diabase, andesite, and intermediate volcanic lava. These form a mixed sedimentary sequence (BGMRXZ, 1997). In the siliceous rocks, the dominant fauna is radiolarians that define the Jurassic to the Late Early Cretaceous (Wu et al., 1984, 2007; Li et al., 2020). For the melange in the IYSZ, various names are given by different scholars, of which the BGMRXZ (1997) referred to it as the Gaxue Group. However, due to the complex tectonics and stratigraphic sequence in the IYSZ, which belongs to oceanic plate stratigraphy (Li et al., 2020), it remains challenging to define it using traditional formations or groups. The Chongdui Formation sandwiched between the ophiolites and the Ngamring Formation of the Xigaze forearc basin, is subject to academic and research disputes about whether it belongs to the IYSZ or the Xigaze forearc basin (Wan et al., 2007; Hu et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2017a). This may be related to its transitional position between the two zones. In this study, the classification scheme proposed by Wang et al. (2017a) is adopted, placing it in the Xigaze forearc basin while acknowledging the possibility that it belongs to the transitional zone between the IYS and the Xigaze forearc basin.

4.1.3 Lhasa block

4.1.3.1 Xigaze forearc basin

. The primary component of the Xigaze forearc basin dominantly consist of Cretaceous strata is the Xigaze Group. The dominnat lithology of this group is sandy-shale, thick-bedded limestone that is widely distributed in the Xigaze-Angren area, located to the south of the Lhasa block (Wen et al., 1974; Wang et al., 2012). The BGMRXZ (1993) classified this group into the Sangzugang, Chongdui, Ngamring, Padana, and Qubeiya formations, from top to bottom. The Chongdui Formation is mainly composed of gray green tuffaceous siliceous rock and siliceous shale in the lower part, while gray sandstone, interbedded with shale, mudstone, and conglomerate in the upper part. This Formation was deposited on the the IYSZ ophiolite suite and covered by the of flysch Ngamring. The zircon U-Pb dating of Chongdui Formation indicates an age range of 119 to 113 ma. (Wang et al., 2017a). The radiolarian fossils found in this formation suggest that it was deposited during the late Barremian to early Aptian period (Ziabrev et al., 2003). The Sangzugang Formation dominantly consists of thick to thin bedded limestone and contains a diverse range of fossils, including corals, bivalves, and foraminifera. It has been determined to have an Early Albian age (Wan et al., 2007). The Ngamring Formation consists of fine siliciclastic rocks with a alternative sequence of conglomeratic sandstone, coarse sandstone, fine sandstone, siltstone, shale, and mud crystalline limestone. The age diagnostic planktonic foraminifera revealed Ngamring Formation as late Albian to Cenomanian age (Wan et al., 1998), while the zircon U-Pb age of its tuffaceous sediments  is 91.3 Ma (Dai et al., 2015). The Padana Formation dominantly consisting of gray-green and purple-red sandstone, sandy mudstone, and mud marl, contains shallow marine water fossils such as bivalve, gastropod, brachiopod, and plant fossils; with an inferred age from late Cenomanian to early Campanian (Wan et al., 2007). The Qubeiya Formation primarily consists mainly of gray to gray-green sandy mud marl, calcareous sandstone, and interbedded bioclastic limestone, in conformable contact with the underlying Padana Formation and unconformably overlain by the Cuojiangding Group.. It contains bivalve, gastropod, and benthic foraminifera fossils, ranging from late Campanian to Maastrichtian (Wan et al., 2007)..

4.1.3.2 Central and northern Lhasa block

The Lithostratigraphic sequence from bottom to top in the Linzhou Basin is the Linbuzong, Chumulong, Takna, and Shixing formations (Wang et al., 2020). The Linbuzong Formation consists mainly of grey-black sandstone and mudstone, with coal seams, plant fossils, ammonites, and bivalves. Its age is determined to be Barresian to Vlangian based on spores and pollens (Yang et al., 2009; Deng et al., 2012; Yang and Li, 2016; Lin and Li, 2019). The Linbuzong Formation is unconformity with the underlying Duodigou Formation limestone, while integrated contact by the overlying Linbuzong Formation. The Chumulong Formation is characterized by fluvial deposits, primarily variegated sandstone and mudstone, along with interbedded coal seams, yielding plant fossils, bivalves, and gastropods. According to Lin and Li (2019), the Chumulong Formation may be dated to the Hauterivian period based on the analysis of spores and pollens. The Takna Formation consists primarily of limestone, sandstone, and shale-dominated layers that include a wide variety of fossils, including bivalves, roundworms, ammonites, echinoderms, and gastropods. The Takana Formation is in integrated contact with the underlying Mulong Formation and the overlying Shexing Formation. Wan et al. (2003) determined that the age of the Takna Formation is from Aptian to Albian period based on their analysis of the larger benthic foraminifera. Boudagher-Fadel et al. (2017) later specified that the Takna Formation is from the early Aptian period. The red beds in the upper part of the formation did not hold any age diagnostic fossils that could be used further to determine its age. Chen (2017) discovered a detrital zircon within red beds with an age of 95 Ma, suggesting that it may have originated during the Cenomanian period. The Shixing Formation consists primarily of diverse clastic deposits along with intermediate-acidic volcanic rocks. There are two data sets available for the age determination of volcanic rocks: 90.6 Ma (Li et al., 2015) and a range of 69.75-73.75 Ma (Sun et al., 2012; Cao et al., 2017).

The Geji-Bangor area (represented by the Coqin and Selin Co basins)) is dominated by the Doni, Langshan, and Jingzhushan formations from bottom to top. The primary lithology of the Dhoni Formation consists of volcanics and grey-dark coal seams. The coal seams, interbedded volcanic rocks, as well as plant fossil, ammonite, bivalve, and gastropod fossils are included in this formation (BGMRXZ, 1997). The Doni Formation lies parallel to the underlying Lagongtang Formation and covered by the the Langshan Formation conformably. The tuff in this formation has been dated using zircon U-Pb analysis, yielding ages ranging from 123–113 Ma (Kang et al., 2009; Sun et al., 2017; Zhu et al., 2020, 2022), with one data set indicating an age of 106 Ma (Sun et al., 2017). The age of the formation has also been determined using ammonite fossils, which indicate a Hauterivian age (Wang D et al., 2022). Additionally, the age of the plant fossils suggests that this formation is from the early Cretaceous period (Deng et al., 2012). Overall, these findings suggest that the formation spans from the Beriasian to the Aptian age, and may extend up to the Albian age in certain areas. The Doba and Chuanba formations are considered to be comparable to the Dhoni Formation and are combined into a single unit as a Dhoni Formation by BGMRXZ (1997). The Langshan Formation is dominantly composed of shallow marine limestone interbedded with siltstone, silty mudstone, and sandstone, and also  thin layers of volcanic rocks. Fossils, such as larger benthic foraminifera , rudist, and gastropod are rich in this formation. Among them, the age of the larger benthic foraminifera is the early Aptian to early Cenomanian (Boudagher-Fadel et al., 2017), while the age of the rudists is the late Aptian to early Albian, and these fossil assemblages can be well correlate  with the Sanzugang Formation in the Xigaze forearc Basin (Rao et al., 2015, 2017). In the Geji area of the Ali region, shallow marine carbonate sediments with a lithology similar to the  Langshan Formation was named as a Tangza Formation (Ye et al., 2019), which may equal to the Langshan Formation. The Zircon U–Pb age of 109.7 ± 0.87 Ma, 109.3 ± 0.6 Ma, and 111.6 ± 0.3 Ma was inferred from volcanic interlayer in the Langshan Formation (Shen et al., 2023), while 1106.32±0.29 Ma Ma was inferred in the tuff interlayer in the middle of Tangza Formation (Han et al., 2021). Based on paleontological and Zircon U–Pb age evidences, the age of the Langshan Formation is suggested to be from the Aptian to early Cenomanian. The Jingzhushan Formation overlies the Langshan Formation and covered by the Niubao Formation both with an unconformable contact. The Jingzhushan Formation primarily consists of red siliciclastic, occasionally containing interlayered limestone and marl, and a rare occurrence of bivalves. The age of this formation is proposed to be in the early-middle Late Cretaceous, as indicated by Jia et al. (2007) and Li H L et al. (2016). Furthermore, in the Shenzha-Shiquanhe areas, there are stratigraphic sequences consisting of diverse sandstone, metamorphic sandstone, volcanic rocks, and carbonate. The stratigraphic strata are referred to as the Zenong Group, and occasionally, the Jiega Formation (BGMRXZ, 1997; Zhu et al., 2008; Wei et al., 2019). The Dangxiong conglomerates, which are of Early Cretaceous age, were formed in the eastern section of the Lhasa block (Wang et al., 2017b).

4.1.3 Qiangtang block

The Late Jurassic–Cretaceous sediments of the Qiangtang Basin, from older to younger sequence, are categorized as the Sowa (Bailongbinghe Formation), Xueshan, and Abushan formations. There is ongoing debate on whether the upper portion of the Suowa Formation and Bailongbinghe Formation were formed during the Early Cretaceous period (Yang and Yin, 1988; Fang et al., 2002; Yi et al., 2003; Zhu et al., 2012; Xue et al., 2020;  Xi et al., 2021). In a recent study conducted by Yin et al. (2021), the age of the Sowa Formation and similar rock layers was determined to be Middle Jurassic through a meticulous process of identifying and analyzing ammonite fossils. The Xueshan Formation is a collection of sediments primarily composed of greyish red siltstone and silty mudstone. It is found in the North Qiangtang Basin and is situated on top of Jurassic limestone with an angular unconformity. Fossils discovered in this formation include bivalves, spores, and pollens from the Middle early Cretaceous period (Fang et al., 2002; Bai et al., 2011; Ma et al., 2023b). The Abushan Formation refers to non-marine red clastic sediments that are unconformable contact with the above Jurassic marine limestone in the South Qiangtang Basin, yielding a few Cretaceous ostracod, bivalve, gastropod, and other fossils (Wu et al., 1986; Ma et al., 2023a). Li et al. (2013, 2015) obtained zircon U-Pb ages of 102.6-75.9 Ma from the volcanic rock interlayers of Abushan Formation. Based on the ages of the spores and pollens, as well as zircon U-Pb ages, the age of the Abushan Formation is suggested to be late Albian to Campanian age. Although the Abushan and Xueshan formations are widely distributed in the Qiangtang Basin, they are located in northern and southern Qiangtang, respectively; thus, there is no direct stratigraphic contact relationship between theese two formations.

The Cretaceous strata of the Qamdo Basin are divided into the Laoran and Zonggu Formation, from older to younger with the presence of the unconformity between the these two frmations (Hao et al., 1986; Zhang et al., 2017). The Laoran Formation is dominantly composed of grayish-brown and purplish-gray mudstone and sandstone, with a rare fossils, such as dinosaurs and fish, with age of Early Cretaceous, while the Zonggu Formation is mainly composed of purple-red medium-fine-grained feldspar sandstone, siltstone, mudstone interbedded, and a small amount of thin-bedded conglomerate, yielding a few fossils, such as dinosaurs and fish, with an inferred age of Late Cretaceous (Hao et al., 1986, 2000; BGMRXZ, 1997; Wang, 2017).The strata above the Zonggu Formation is undetermined  (Hao et al., 2000; BGMRXZ, 1997; Wang, 2017)..

4.1.4 Karakoram block

The presence of early Cretaceous age sedimentary units in the Karakoram block has been a topic of debate (Wen et al., 2000b; Xi et al., 2019, 2021). The Upper Cretaceous sediments in the Karakoram region are part of the Tielongtan Group. The Tielongtan Group consists of carbonate and clastic rocks that can be found in various locations including the southeastern Aksai Chin Lake, West Lokzong Mountain, and East Lokzong Mountain along National Highway 219. These strata contain fossils such as bivalves, gastropods, foraminifera, and algae, which inferred the late Turonian to early Maastrichtian age (Wen et al., 2000b; Xi et al., 2019, 2020; Sha et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2023). The group may possibly consist of the benthic foraminifera particularly Orbitolina, that ranges from Early Cretaceous to Cenomanian period (Wen and Wu, 1984). The Tielongtan Group is now the subject of a discussion regarding its internal division. Proposed divisions include the West Lokzong Formation, Litian Formation, and East Lokzong Formation (Wen et al., 2000b), as well as the Sandstone Formation and Limestone Formation (BGMRXJ, 1999). At present, there is no exposed lithogical section that includes the entire group, and will need to do further investigation to determine the internal stratigraphic sequence.

.

4.1.5 Songpan Ganzi-Hoh Xil blocks

The Cretaceous–early Paleogene Fenghuoshan Group is mainly developed in the Hoh Xil Basin. The Fenghuoshan Group is predominantly composed of red clastic rocks and can be further divided into the Cuojuri, Lolika, and Sangqiashan formations from bottom to top (Ji et al., 1994). Recently, scientists have been able to better date this group by using palynostratigraphy, magnetostratigraphy, and zircon U-Pb dating on the tuff, suggesting that it was formed between the late Early Cretaceous and Eocene (Liu et al., 2003; Stasch et al., 2014; Li et al., 2015; Jin et al., 2018).

4.1.6 Stratigraphy of the Qaidam block Qaidam block

The Cretaceous stratigraphy of the Qaidam Basin is mainly the Quanyagou Group. The Quanyagou Group is mainly composed of red clastic sediments that mostly form alluvial fan and fluvial facies, yielding a few fossils, including ostracods, diatoms, and palynomorphs, etc. The indicated age based on fossils is the Early Cretaceous (Hao et al., 2000; Yang, 2011).

4.1.7 Stratigraphy of typical basins or block surrounding the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau

4.1.7.1 Tarim Basin

From bottom to top, the Cretaceous layers in the Tarim Basin are made up of the Kezilesu Group, Kukebai, Wuyitage, Yigeziya, and Tuyiluoke formations. These layers are easily seen in the western part of the basin (Hao et al., 1982, 2001; Zhou, 2001; Xi et al., 2020). The Kezilesu Group is primarily within non-marine environments, with a slight local marine invasion in the upper portion. In contrast, the Kukebai, Wuyitage, Yigeziya, and Tuyiluoke formations are mainly marine (Hao et al., 1982, 2001; Xi et al., 2020). The Kezilesu Group is a set of red, coarse clastic rocks dating back to the mid- to late-Early Cretaceous. The lower part of the Kukebai Formation gradually transitions from red gypsum mudstone to shell-bearing limestone, while the middle and upper portions primarily comprise grayish mudstone interbedded with limestone. Meanwhile, the Tuyiluoke Formation is primarily composed of red gypsum mudstone; the Wuyitage Formation is composed largely of red sandstone and mudstone; and the Yigeziya Formation is composed mainly of limestone. Xi et al. (2020) have provided a thorough description of the lithostratigraphy.

4.1.7.2 The Indus Basin

The Indus Basin is one of the most important basins in South Asia, with its main body located in Pakistan and a small portion in India. It can be further divided into the Upper and Lower Indus Basins. The Cretaceous strata in the Upper Indus River Basin are divided from bottom to top into the Chichali, Lumshiwal, and Kawagarh formations, whereas the Lower Indus  Basin, from bottom to top, comprises the Sembar, Goru, and Parh formations (Shah, 2009; Saboor et al., 2022). The Chichali Formation is a set of marine green sandstones and shales dating from the Late Jurassic to the Early Cretaceous. The Lumshiwal Formation is composed of sandstone, sandy limestone, shale, and mudstone, distinguishable by sandstones and the underlying Chichali Formation shale, whereas the top presents a set of sandy limestones and the overlying Kawagarh Formation facies limestone. The Kawagarh Formation is composed of limestone and thin shale layers dating back to the mid- to late Cretaceous. According to Fürsich and Pandey (2003), the Sembar Formation is a stratum that primarily consists of mudstone and sandstone and is older than the Chichali Formation. The Goru Formation is mostly made up of sandstone layers that are similar to the Lumshiwal Formation from the late Early Cretaceous period. The Parh Formation, on the other hand, is mostly made up of limestone layers that are similar to the Kawagarh Formation from the late Cretaceous Cenomanian to early Maastrichtian period, though it may not have any Late Maastrichtian layers (Ahsan and Chaudhry, 2008).

4.1.7.3 The Deccan region of India plate

The Cretaceous strata in the Indian Deccan region are divided from bottom to top into the Bagh Group, Lameta Formation, and Deccan Trap Supergroup (Shitole et al., 2021; Khosla et al., 2019, 2023, 2023; Verma and Khosla, 2019; Kulkarni and Uchman, 2022). The lower part of the Bagh Group is composed primarily of sandstone, while the upper portion is mainly limestone, dating back to the Beriasian to Coniacian period (Smith, 2010; Shitole et al., 2021). The lower part of the Lameta Formation is composed of sandstone and the upper portion of gravelly sandstone and sandy limestone, dating to the early to middle Maastrichtian. Above the Lameta Formation is the Deccan Trap Supergroup, which is largely composed of basalt-interbedded sedimentary layers dating from the late Maastrichtian to early Danian period (Verma and Khosla, 2019; Khosla et al., 2023). Meanwhile, the Deccan basalt has been dated between 66.4 to 65.4 Ma by high-precision CA-ID-TIMS zircon U-Pb and feldspar 40Ar/39Ar dating (Schoene et al., 2019; Sprain et al., 2019), that is just across the K–Pg boundary.

4.1.7.4 West Burma Block

The West Burma block is closely associated with the Neo-Tethys evolution (Liu et al., 2016; Westerwell et al., 2019; Ding et al., 2022). The Cretaceous strata of the West Burma block are largely distributed between the Hukaung, Chindwin, and Minbu basins, including the Paung Chaung Formation, Kabaw Formation, and Lowe Paunggyi Formation from bottom to top (Bender, 1983; Thae et al., 2017; Cai et al., 2020). The Paung Chaung Formation unconformably overlies the Upper Triassic marine turbidite and pillow basalt, and is primarily composed of limestone (Bender, 1983; Thae et al., 2017). The ammonites and foraminifera of this formation are dated as Albian to Cenomanian (Gramann, 1974; Wan et al., 2003). Moreover, the famous Burmese Kachin amber was discovered in this formation or the equivalent strata (Jiang et al., 2018; Shi et al., 2012; Xing and Qiu et al., 2020; Wang, 2020). The Kabaw Formation is composed of shale, mudstone, and limestone, yielding ammonites, foraminifera, and bivalve fossils belonging to the late Cretaceous (Bender, 1983; Thae et al., 2017; Cai, 2020). Recently, an LA-ICP-MS zircon U-Pb date of 72.1 ± 0.3 Ma was given to the tuff layers of a new amber biota in this formation (Zheng, 2018). The Paunggyi Formation is composed of conglomerate, coarse sandstone, shale, and lenticular limestone. Recently, LA-ICP-MS zircon U-Pb dating of tuff layers from the Paunggyi Formation was carried out, ranging from 70 Ma to 64 Ma (Huang et al., 2018; Cai et al., 2020), indicating that the lower portion of this formation may be late Maastrichtian.

4.1.7.5 Sichuan Basin

Given that the Sichuan Basin is adjacent to the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, the western Sichuan Basin is relevant to this study. From bottom to top, the Cretaceous stratigraphy of the western Sichuan Basin developed the Tianmashan, Jiaguan, and Guankou formations (Hao et al., 2000; Cao, 2013; Xi et al., 2021). The Tianmashan Formation is a set of brownish-red, brick-red mudstone, sandstone, and conglomerate primarily comprising fossils, such as ostracods. It has a parallel unconformity contact relationship with the underlying Penglaizhen Formation and a conformity or unconformity contact relationship with the overlying Jiaguan Formation (Hao et al., 2000; Shen et al., 2023). The microfossils and magnetostratigraphy of this formation indicate an age range from the early to middle Early Cretaceous; however, the earliest Early Cretaceous strata may be missing (Hao et al., 2000; Shen et al., 2023). The Jiaguan Formation is composed of purple-red and brownish-red sandstones, interbedded with siltstones and mudstones, as well as ostracod and other fossils. Ostracoda fossils and magnetostratigraphy indicate that its age ranges from the late Early Cretaceous to the early Campanian of the Late Cretaceous (Hao et al., 2000; Xi et al., 2021; Shen et al., 2023). There are fossils of ostracods, foraminifera, and charophytes in the Guankou Formation, which is mostly made up of brownish-red or purplish-red siltstone and mudstone (Li, 1979). It can be easily shaped to fit between the upper and lower layers. The bottom is distinguished by medium-thick conglomerates, which are different from the thick, fine-grained sandstone of the Jiaguan Formation below. The microfossils and magnetostratigraphy of this formation indicate an origin in the Campanian Early Middle Maastrichtian period (Hao et al., 2000; Shen et al., 2023).

4.1.7.6 Simao Basin

The Cretaceous strata in the Simao Basin can be divided, from bottom to top, into the Bazhulu, Jingxing, Xinjie, Hutousi, and Mengyejing formations. The Bazhulu Formation is composed of purple-red and variegated mudstone dating from the late Jurassic to early Cretaceous. The lower portion of the Jingxing Formation primarily comprises grayish-green and grayish-white sandstones and mudstones, while the upper portion is predominantly red mudstones and rich in bivalve and ostracod fossils dating back to the early Cretaceous period. The Xinjie Formation is largely composed of a set of red detrital rocks, while the Hutousi Formation comprises a set of variegated sandstones; both formations are middle to late Early Cretaceous. On top of the Hutousi Formation lies the Mengyejing Formation, which is mostly made up of red and variegated mudstones, variegated clastic rocks, gypsum salts, and a small amount of black mudstone and limestone (Yunnan Geological and Mineral Bureau, 1996). Historically, assessments of its age are divided into three opinions: Jurassic, Cretaceous, or Paleogene. Isotopic chronology, magnetostratigraphy, and biostratigraphy of the Mengyejing Formation have recently led to the discovery of zircon U-Pb ages of 98.2 Ma and 106.4~109.5 Ma (Wang et al., 2015), spore pollen fossils from the late Early Cretaceous to late Cretaceous, and magnetostratigraphic sequences from > 112 Ma to ~63 Ma (Yan et al., 2021). This means that its age may range from late Early Cretaceous to early Paleocene.

4.1.7.7 Khorat Basin

The Khorat Basin is located in the central part of the Indochina block, with thick Mesozoic–Cenozoic red clastic rock deposited in the basin (Wang et al., 2022). The Jurassic–Cretaceous strata in the basin primarily include the Khorat Group, Maha Sarakham Formation, and Phu Thok Formation (Sha et al., 2012; Wang et al., 2022, 2023). The Khorat Group is composed of non-marine red mudstone, siltstone, sandstone, and conglomerate. From bottom to top, it can be divided into the Nam Phong, Phu Kradung, Phra Wihan, Sao Khua, Phu Phan, and Khok Krua formations. The Phra Wihan Formation to Kruat Formation range from Berriasian to Albian (Sha et al., 2012, Wang et al., 2022, 2023). The Maha Sarakham Formation is mostly made up of terrestrial evaporite and red detrital sediments. It doesn't match up with the Khorat Group and dates back to the late Albian to the Cenomanian (Racey and Goodall, 2009; Sha, 2012). The Phu Thok Formation is largely composed of red clastic sediments dating back to the Late Cretaceous or Paleocene (Sha et al., 2012; Wang et al., 2023).

4.2 Biostratigraphy

The marine stratigraphy of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas yields abundant foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils, radiolarians, bivalves, ammonites, flagellates, ostracods, gastropod, and echinoderms, whereas non-marine stratigraphy contains plant, ostracod, gastropod, bivalve, spore, and pollen fossils (Xi et al., 2019). Indeed, foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils, radiolarians, bivalves and ammonite were an important in the stratigraphic division and correlation during the Cretaceous, which will be described in detail in this paper. A multi-biostratigraphic division and correlation are shown by putting together the biostratigraphy of different fossils (Figure 6).

4.2.1 Foraminifera

Foraminifera are abundant in the marine stratigraphy of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas (Figure 7). Planktic foraminifera are highly abundant in the Tethyan Himalayan zone, including the Gamba-Tingri and Zanda areas, and relatively abundant in the Indus Basin and Xigaze forearc basins. Large benthic foraminifera dominated the Lhasa block and Karakorum block, and shallow marine facies of the Tethyan Himalayan zone, the Indus Basin, the Xigaze forearc basin, etc., while the small benthic foraminifera were widely distributed across various marine stratigraphy.

4.2.1.1 Planktonic foraminifera

Cretaceous planktic foraminiferal fossils from the Tethyan Himalayan zone are abundant (Figures 7-8) and have been studied in detail by Chinese and international researchers (He et al., 1976; Wan, 1985, 1987; Wan, 1991; Willems et al., 1996; Zhao and Wan, 2003; Shi et al., 2005; Li et al., 2007, 2009b, 2011c, 2012; Wu et al., 2011; Chen, 2011; Gao, 2011; Li G B et al., 2012; 2020; Jia et al., 2013; Li Q and Li G B, 2019; Fang et al., 2020, 2021; Gao et al., 2023).

Planktic foraminiferal fossils are most developed in the southern Tethyan Himalayan zone, with numerous associated zones established by various researchers. More specifically, 11 planktic foraminiferal zones (early Albian to Late Campanian) were established by Wan (1985, 1990) based on the Gamba section of South Tibet; 13 (Albian–Maastrichtian) were identified by Willems et al. (1996) in the Tingri Section, South Tibet; 21 by Li et al. (2020) (early Albian to late Campanian) based on the Gamba and Qiangdong sections; 10 by Zhao and Wan (2003) (Early Albian to Late Campanian) based on different sections of the Gamba and Tingri area; 12 by Shi et al. (2005) based on the Gongza section in the Tingri area; 4 by Wu et al. (2011) (Coniacian–Maastrichtian stage) based on the Lamu and Shenke sections in Tingri; 4 by Fang et al. (2020, 2021) (Late Barremian to Late Campanian stage) based on the Chaqiela section in Gamba area (Late Barremian to Aptian); and 4 by Li and Li (2020) (Santonian–Campanian) based on the Gongza section. Based on the planktic foraminiferal zones established by Wan (1985, 1990) as well as those described by others, particularly the publications on planktic foraminifera in the Qiangdong section identified by Li G B et al. (2020)and Maastrichtian foraminiferal zones identified by Willems et al. (1996), detailed planktic foraminiferal zones of the Tethyan Himalayan Southern zone of late Barremian–mid-Maastrichtian were provided. From bottom to top, they were: Hedbergella sigali, Globigerinelloides blowi, Schakoina cabri, Globigerinelloides algeriana, Hedbergella gorbachikae, Ticinella beyaouensis, T. primula, Biticinella breggiensis, Rotalipora subticinensis, R. ticinensis, R. appenninica, R. reichel, R. cushmani, Whiteinella archaeocretacea, Helvetoglobotruncana helvetica, Marginotruncana sigali, Dicarinella primitiva, D. concavata, D. asymetrica, Globotruncanita elevata, Globotruncana ventricosa, and Radotruncana calcarata zones (Figure 7).

In the Zanda area, Wan (2005c) established two planktic foraminiferal zones from the Campanian period. Later, Li et al. (2009) created 14 fossil assemblage zones, ranging from oldest to newest: Whiteinella archaeocretacea, Globotruncana ventricosa, Radotruncana calcarata, Globotruncanella havanensis, Gansserina gansseri, Abathomphalus mayaroensis, and Rotalipora ticinensis. The ages of these zones range from the Aptian to the Maastrichtian.

The northern Tethyan Himalayan zone is primarily composed of pelagic sediments, with abundant planktic foraminiferal in the Cretaceous Oceanic Red Beds, ranging from late Santonian to Maastrichtian (Wan et al., 2005, 2007; Li et al., 2007, 2011c). The Angren Formation of the Xigaze forearc Basin yielded a few planktonic foraminiferal fossils, including Whiteinella archaeocretacea, W. baltica, Marginotruncana pileoliformis, M. sinuosa, Dicarinella primitiva, and D. concavata, ranging from the late Albian to the early Coniacian (Wan et al., 1998). In a recent study by Gao et al. (2023), a few planktic foraminifera from the Campanian period were discovered in the Karakorum region. Khan et al. (2021) identified 15 zones of planktic foraminifera in the Indus Basin, ranging from the Aptian to the early Maastrichtian. Meanwhile, Sabba et al. (2022) identified eight zones in the Sulaiman area, specifically from the Albian to the Turonian. Using this collaborative effort, a total of 18 zones of planktonic foraminifera were identified in the Indus Basin (Figure 7), and these zones showed a strong correlation with those found in the southern Tethyan Himalayan zone.

4.2.1.2 Benthic foraminifera

Li Gang's team has done extensive research on small benthic foraminifera from the Tethyan Himalayas zone during the Early Cretaceous. Their studies are documented in several publications, including Fang and Li et al. (2015), Colpaert and Li (2021, 2023), and Li et al. (2021). Colpaert and Li (2023) recently provided a summary of the distribution of foraminiferal fossils in the Gyangze and Tingri areas of the Tethyan Himalayan zone. They identified three benthic foraminiferal assemblage zones: Trochammina quinqueloba, Glomospira abruptaprisca, and Anomalinoides creatine-Textularia bettenstaedti assemblages, arranged in chronological order from older to younger. These assemblages have ages ranging from the Tithonian to the Albian period. The Gamba-Tingri area includes a high number of benthic foraminifera from the mid-Cretaceous period. Jia et al. (2010) identified three distinct groups of these foraminifera, which span from the Late Cenomanian to the early Turonian: Anomalinoides-Gyroidinoides, Conobina-Nodosaria, and Lenticulina-Gavelina.

The Late Cretaceous stratigraphy of the western Tarim Basin was dominated by small benthic foraminifera, with a few planktic foraminifera (Hao et al., 1982, 2001). Three small benthic foraminifera assemblages were recognized in the Kukebai Formation from base to top: Migros-Ammobaculites, Ammobaculites-Talimuella, and Migros-Noion assemblages, ranging from Cenomanian to Turonian. The small benthic foraminifera of the Wuyitake Formation is represented by the Quinqueloculina-Massilina assemblage (Coniacian to Santonian), while the Yigeziya Formation is represented by the Quinqueloculina-Nodosaria-Textularia and Pseudoceratopsia-Anatopsia assemblages (Campanian to early Maastrichtian) (Hao et al., 2001; Xi et al., 2020). The Cibicides-Cibicidoides and Quinqueloculina-Nonion-Textularia assemblages were recognized in the Tuyiluoke Formation, ranging from late Maastrichtian to early Danian (Hao et al., 2001; Xi et al., 2016).

The large benthic foraminifera (LBF) developed primarily in the Takna and Langshan formations of the Lhasa block, the Sangzugang Formation of the Xigaze forearc basin, the Tielongtan Group of the Karakoram block, and the Zongshan Formation of the southern Tethyan Himalayan zone, as well as other regions, including the Indus basin and Myanmar (Wan, 1985, 2020; Zhang, 1986, 1991; Liu, 1998; Wen et al., 2000; Wan et al., 2003; Boudagher-Fadel et al., 2017; Sha et al., 2020). According to Boudagher-Fadel et al. (2017), eight LBF zones were found, going from bottom to top: TLK1a (with the FO of Pseudochoffatella cf. cuvillieri), TLK1b (with Mesorbitolina parva), TLK1c (with Mesorbitolina taxana), TLK1d (with Cuneneolina pavonia), TLK1e (with Palorbitolinoides hedini), TLK1f (with Mesorbitolina aperta), TLK1g (with Pseudochoffatella cuvillieri), and TLK1h (with Cuneneolina sp.).

4.2.2 Calcareous nannofossils

Calcareous nannofossils are among the most important categories for the international division and correlation of Cretaceous stratigraphy. Compared to other fossils, such as foraminifera, ammonites, and bivalves, the advantage of calcareous nannofossils lies in the ease of obtaining abundant and well-preserved fossil specimens through field sampling. Additionally, calcareous nannofossils evolve rapidly, providing more constraints on the bioevents within geological time units and facilitating the establishment of a high-precision biostratigraphic framework. Calcareous nannofossils from the Cretaceous period dated 129 bioevents with an average biostratigraphic accuracy of 0.6 million years (Table 2), which meets the needs for accuracy in studies of climate change that go back a very long time. Moreover, calcareous nannofossils exhibit small individual sizes, complete preservation, and robust morphology. Thus, even after being influenced by diagenesis post-deposition, they can be separated from rocks as intact fossil individuals for identification. Therefore, they have a particular advantage in regions like South Tibet, where tectonic movements and diagenetic effects are significant. Although considerable research has been reported on the foraminifera, ammonites, and bivalves within the southern Tibetan region of China, studies on the biostratigraphy of calcareous nannofossils remain relatively limited, with a relative dearth of reported data. This highlights the contradiction that while the South Tibet region possesses ideal research materials and methods, they have not been fully utilized.

The investigation of calcareous nannofossils from the Cretaceous period in the southern Tibetan region commenced in 1992. Xu and Mao (1992) conducted separate studies on the biostratigraphy of calcareous nannofossils in various sections, including the Gamba Zongshan section, Zongpu section, and Tingri Gongzha section, spanning from the Gamba Dongshan Formation to the Zongpu Formation. They examined the Cretaceous to Paleogene layers and distinguished five groups of fossils and one specific group of fossils (found in the CC7-CC25 zones) within the Cretaceous period. This event marked the initiation of scientific investigation on the stratigraphic distribution of calcareous nannofossils in Tibet. Zhong et al. (2000) later identified six calcareous nannofossil zones in the Gamba area. These zones were developed based on calcareous nannofossils from two sections, specifically from the Gambadongshan Formation, Chaqiela Formation, and Gambacunkou Formation. By establishing a correlation between different continents, they determined the boundary between the Cenomanian and Turonian periods in this specific area.

Over the past decade, several studies have evaluated the biostratigraphy of Cretaceous calcareous nannofossils in south Tibet, with a primary focus on the Gamba and Tingri regions in the Tethyan Himalayan southern zone (Wan et al., 2007; Wen, 2018; Yao et al., 2018; Wang, 2021; Wang et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2023), leading to the establishment of higher-precision biostratigraphic frameworks (Figures 9-10). On the other hand, not much research has been done on the Cretaceous biostratigraphy in the northern Tethyan Himalayan zone, mostly in the Gyangze area (Svabenicka et al., 2010; Wan et al., 2011). However, these studies have primarily focused on significant geological events, including the K-Pg boundary, oceanic anoxic events, the India-Asia collision, and related research on ancient oceanography and paleoclimatic changes. Meanwhile, relatively less attention has been dedicated to studying formations that do not include major geological events. As a result, the south Tibet region has poor precision and lacks a complete and continuous long-term sequence for biostratigraphic frameworks.

The Gucuocun Formation is located below the calcareous nannofossil zone CC7 in the Tingri area, as described by Xu and Mao in 1992. The boundary between the Gambacunkou Formation and the layer above it, known as the CC8 zone, is identified by the presence of Tranolithus orionatus (110.73 Ma). This boundary in the Early Albian period, as determined by Wang et al. in 2022. The Gambacunkou Formation contains several significant fossils, including Axopodorhabdus albianus (also known as Axopodorhabdus biramiculatus), Eiffellithus monechiae, E. turriseiffelii, Corollithion kennedyi, Microrhabdulus decoratus, Helenea chiastia, Quadrum gartneri, Kamptnerius magnificus, E. eximius, and Micula stauropora. These fossils are believed to have existed during the Albian to Turonian periods, as shown in Figure 9 (Yao et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2023). The Jiubao Formation, which is equivalent to the lower part of the Zongshan Formation in the Gamba area, contains calcareous nannofossils. The main species found in this formation are Arkhangelskiella cymbiformis, Broinsonia parca, and Uniplanarius sissinghii. These species are representative of zones CC16-CC21 and are found in the Coniacian to Santonian periods. The Zhepuren Shanpo Formation is located in zones CC22 to CC26 and is dated from the Campanian to Maastrichtian periods. It is characterized by the presence of Reinhardtites levis, Lithraphidites quadratus, M. murus, and M. prinsiiI as marker fossils (Wen, 2018).

In the Gamba area, the biostratigraphy of the Gambadongshan Formation calcareous nannofossils has not yet been established. The Chaqiela Formation is located in zone CC9, corresponding to the Albian period, with E. turriseiffelii as the main zone marker fossil (Xu Yulin and Mao Shaozhi, 1992). In their study on the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary extinction and oceanic anoxic events, Wan et al. (2003) used calcareous nannofossils in assemblage with foraminifera to divide the Lengqingre Formation into fossil zones CC10 to CC12.

In their study on the early Cretaceous calcareous nannofossils in the Gyangze area of the northern Tethyan Himalaya zone, Svabenicka et al. (2010) used the presence of both Prediscosphaera columnata and Cribrosphaerella Ehrenbergii to determine that the age of the fossils is from the late Aptian to early Albian. This age range is similar to the Gambadongshan Formation in the Gamba area. In the Gyangze region, Wan et al. (2011) used U-Pb dating along with biostratigraphic data from calcareous nannofossils and ammonites to determine the Jurassic/Cretaceous boundary at the bottom of the Jiabula Formation.

Overall, extensive research has been performed on the calcareous nannofossil biostratigraphy, with significant progress in South Tibet. However, because of the limitations of the geological field mapping and sampling, the exact measurement of section and sampling are still not accurate enough. This means that biostratigraphy division and age determination are not as clear. It is, therefore, necessary to utilize the advantages of calcareous nannofossils to conduct biostratigraphy research in South Tibet. Through the multiple biostratigraphic analyses, a higher-resolution biostratigraphy and chronological framework can be achieved to understand better idea about the regional tectonics and the paleooceanography of the Tethys Himalayas in South Tibet.

4.2.3. Radiolarians

Cretaceous age radiolarians have been found in the Indus-Yarlung Zangbo suture zone (IYSZ), the Bangong-Nujiang suture zone (BNSZ), and the nearby sedimentary zone in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (Wu et al., 1982; Li and Wu, 1985; Wu, 1986, 2007; Wu et al., 1993; Matsuoka et al., 2002; Ziabrev et al., 2003, 2004; Wang, 2005; Li G B et al., 2007, 2009b, 2011a, 2023; Xu et al., 2009; Liu et al., 2016; Xu and Luo, 2016; Wang et al., 2019, 2021). These radiolarian fossils provide an important insight regarding the stratigraphy, basin evolutional history, paleogeography, and the final closure of the Bangong-Nujiang and Neo-Tethyan Ocean (Li et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2023). In the 1980s, systematic research on Cretaceous radiolarians began in the Tibet region. Fossils were mostly found from the Chongdui Formation, the southern Zongzhuo Formation, and the Xialu volcanic rocks of the Yarlung Zangbo ophiolite belt (Wu et al., 1982; Li and Wu, 1985; Wu, 1986).

Based on radiolarian assemblages, the Chongdui Formation is a deep-sea turbidite deposit that overlying on top of the ophiolite pillow lavas. Its age is thought to be between the Late Albian and Early Cenomanian. The Xialu volcanic rocks on the southern side of the ophiolite belt represent a large-scale bedded radiolarian chert series, an important deep-water sedimentary record of the Neo-Tethys Ocean. The Early Cretaceous radiolarian fossils in this series have also been systematically described and correlated with the Cecrops septemporata subzone, dating to the Late Valanginian or Valanginian-Hauterivian (Wu, 1993). During 21st century, numerous systemic studies have been conducted on radiolarians in the Tibet region. i.e., Ziabrev et al. (2003) conducted a detailed study of the radiolarian biostratigraphy in the Chongdui Formation; based on lithostratigraphic evidence, they concluded that the Chongdui Formation recorded the transition from deep-sea siliceous rock to semi-deep-sea siliceous mudstone deposition during the Late Barremian to Early Aptian. Meanwhile, Matsuoka et al. (2002) established six radiolarian fossil zones in the Xialu volcanic rocks and compared them with radiolarian biostratigraphy from Pacific Ocean drilling and Japan. The upper Pseudodictyomitra carpatica zone (Late Tithonian–Early Valanginian) and Turbocapsula costata zone (Aptian) represent the Early Cretaceous. Subsequent studies on radiolarian biostratigraphy discovered Cretaceous radiolarian fossils, with related fossil zones established in Gyangze, Saga, Bailang, and Zhongba of the Tethys Himalayan North Subzone (Ziabrev et al., 2004; Xu and Luo, 2017; Wu et al., 2017).

The BNSZ contains siliceous with radiolarians ranging from the Early Triassic to Early Cretaceous. However, the study of radiolarian fossils in these rocks is limited. Baxter et al. (2009) discovered an Early Cretaceous radiolarian fauna from siliceous rocks and siliceous mudstone blocks of the Laguo Co mélange on the southern side of the BNSZ, which also contains Middle Jurassic radiolarian fossils. Wang et al. (2023) found well-preserved Early Cretaceous radiolarian fossils in the Rituo area of the western side of this suture zone. By comparing these findings with the established radiolarian unitary association zones (UAZs) based on graphic correlation theory between various radiolarian taxa in the Tethyan region, they determined that the ages of these fossils range from the Hauterivian to Late Aptian. During the Cretaceous period, paleomagnetic studies indicate that the Tethys and Bangong-Nujiang Tethys were located in the mid-latitude regions of the Northern Hemisphere, while the East-Tethys represented by the southern Tibetan region was located in the mid-latitude regions of the Southern Hemisphere. Recent research has discovered T. costata (Wu) and A. carinatus perforatus Dumitrica et Dumitrica-Jud, representing the Barremian to Aptian radiolarian biozones in corresponding stratigraphic levels in northern Italy and southern Tibet. The degree of similarity in the overall radiolarian assemblages of the two regions during this period was high (Li et al., 2023). Therefore, despite the East and West Neo-Tethys being located in different hemispheres during the Early Cretaceous period, the differences in radiolarian biogeographic zones were relatively small. Thus, effective comparisons can be made.

Although radiolarian fossils from the Cretaceous period are widely distributed globally, there is a lack of universal fossil zonation. Based on the biogeographic characteristics, the zonation of radiolarian fossils is classified into the following regions: the North American, Tethyan, and Japan–Western Pacific zones. Cui et al. (2022, 2023) evaluated the radiolarian assemblages from the Valanginian to Hauterivian stages of the Early Cretaceous in different regions of the world. They found that the biogeographic distribution of the Cecrops septemporatus fauna was relatively restricted to low-latitude regions in the Tethys and Pacific. However, they also observed migration from low-latitude regions of the Tethys domain to mid-latitude regions. (Li et al., 2017, 2020). In this study, the radiolarian zonation of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and adjacent areas generally adopts the Tethyan Zone and its related unitary association zones (from bottom to top): Hiscocapsa asseni zone (UA1, Late Barremian), Turbocapsula fugitiva zone (Aptian), including subzones Hiscocapsa verbeeki (UA2–5) and Turbocapsula castata (UA6–9), Thanarla spoletoensis zone (Albian–Early Cenomanian), including subzones Mallanites romanus (UA10–11), Pogonias missilis (UA12–13), and Dorypyle ? anisa (UA14–15), Dactyliosphaera silviae zone (Cenomanian), including subzones Patellula spica (UA16–17) and Guttacapsa biacuta (UA18–19), and Alievium superbum zone (UA20–21, Early Turonian) (Figure 11).

4.2.4 Bivalves

Bivalve fossils are abundant in the Cretaceous stratigraphy of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas and play an important role in the stratigraphic correlation between different regions. This paper presents a detailed biostratigraphic correlation of bivalve fossils from regions such as the Tethyan Himalayan zone, Lhasa block, Karakoram block, and western Tarim Basin (Figures 12, 13).

In the Tethyan Himalayan zone, Early Cretaceous bivalves are represented by the Berriasian Retroceramus everesti - Oxytoma (Hypoxytoma) gyangzensis assemblage, found in the lower part of the Jiabula Formation in the northern part of this region (Wen et al., 1976; Gou, 1985a; Wen, 1999). In this assemblage, R. everesti is a Gondwanan cold-water species that occurs in the Tithonian to Valanginian of Australia, New Zealand, Antarctica, and South America in addition to the Tethyan Himalayan zone, while the other species are mostly endemic taxa identified by Gou Zonghai (1985a). Li and Grant-Mackie (1988, 1994) reported the Buchia shuomoensis-Buchia mankamanensis assemblage from the Lower Cretaceous of the southern Tethyan Himalayan zone, and assigned it to the Berriasian based on associated ammonites such as Berriasella oppeli, Berriasella privasensis, and Blanfordiana wallichi. However, Yin and Enay (2004), Frau et al. (2016), and Yin (2016) confirmed that all Berriasella species reported from the Tethyan Himalayan zone are Blandfordiceras wallichi, which is Tithonian in age, so the Early Cretaceous bivalves reported by Li and Grant-Mackie should actually be Tithonian taxa. Xia and Bai (2005) reported Buchia subokensis from the San Niu Gou section of Nyalam County, which is known from Berriasia in North America and Northeast Asia (Surlyk and Zakharov, 1982; Sha and Fürsich, 1994), suggesting that Buchia may extend into Berriasia in the Tethyan Himalayan region.

The Late Early Cretaceous bivalves of the Tethyan Himalayan zone include the Aucellina hughendenensis-Syncyclonema territorianum assemblage of the Gambadongshan Formation and the Nototrigonia himalayensis-Maccoyella reflecta assemblage of the Chaqiela Formation (Gou, 1987; Li and Grant-Mackie, 1994; Wen, 1999, 2000). In addition to A. hughendenensis and S. territorianum, other species in the Gambadongshan Formation are also endemic. Aucellina is widespread in cold-water, high-latitude regions from the Aptian to the Turonian, such as Europe, the Caucasus, Australia, and Antarctica. Except for the Tethyan Himalayan zone, A. hughendenensis is also found in the Albian of Australia. Syncyclonema is distributed in the Aptian to Maastrichtian of the Himalayas, Europe, North America, and Australia. Except for the Tethyan Himalayan zone, S. territorianum has also been reported in Australia. Considering that the age indicated by ammonites, foraminifera, pollen, and spores of the Gambadongshan Formation is from the Aptian to Early Albian (Peng et al., 2014; Yin, 2016; Li et al., 2020), the Aucellina hughendenensis-Syncyclonema territorianum assemblage should be assigned to the Aptian to Early Albian. This assemblage suggests that the Tethyan Himalayan zone remained in a high-latitude, cold-water region from Aptian to  Early Albian and show a biogeographical affinity with Australia.

The bivalves of the Chaqiela Formation are represented by a Nototrigonia himalayensis-Maccoyella reflecta assemblage. Similar to the Gambadongshan Formation, this assemblage consists mainly of endemic taxa, but also includes a certain proportion (approximately 30%) of high-latitude cold-water taxa distributed in Australia, New Zealand, Antarctica, and South America, including Eyrena, Maccoyella and Nototrigonia. Eyrena linguloides was found in the Aptian of Australia; Maccoyella is known from the Lower Cretaceous of Australia, New Zealand, and South America (Waterhouse and Riccardi, 1970). Apart from the Tethyan Himalayan zone, Maccoyella reflecta and M. substriata have also been reported from the Aptian of Australia (Day et al., 1970; Wen, 2000); Nototrigonia was first recorded in the Hauterivian of Queensland, Australia, and is widely distributed in Australia, New Zealand, and Antarctica by the Albian stage (Kelly, 1995), it occurred in South Africa in the Late Aptian (Cooper, 2000), but so far, the distribution of this genus is restricted to the Early Cretaceous. Compared to the Gambadongshan Formation, the bivalves of the Chaqiela Formation include cosmopolitan genera, such as Actinoceramus concentricus, which flourished in Europe, Australia, and Antarctica during the mid-to late-Albian (Marcinowski and Radwanski, 1989; Crampton and Gale, 2005; Scott, 2009; Knight and Morris, 2019). Considering the age range of the above taxa and the age of the underlying Gambadongshan Formation, the Nototrigonia himalayensis-Maccoyella reflecta assemblage of the Chaqiela Formation is likely late Albian.

The bivalve assemblages in the lower and upper members of the Gambacunkou Formation show marked differences, with the Aucellina coquandiana- Propeamussium (Propeamussium) tibetense assemblage in the lower member and the Pycnodonte (Phygraea) vesiculosa–Camptonectes (Camptonectes) virgatus assemblage in the upper member (Douvillé, 1916; Wen et al., 1976; Gou, 1987; Wen, 1999, 2000). In the lower assemblage, Aucellina coquandiana is generally considered a synonym of A. gryphaeoides, which thrives in the Upper Albian and Lower Cenomanian of Europe and Australia (Wilmsen, 2003; Wood, 2016), therefore, this assemblage can be dated to the Late Albian to Early Cenomanian. The discovery of A. coquandiana in the Tethyan Himalayan zone suggests that it was still in the high-latitude cold-water zone of the Southern Hemisphere at this time, and that species exchange with Australia was still occurring.

The bivalve assemblage Pycnodonte (Phygraea) vesiculosa- Camptonectes (Camptonectes) virgatus in the upper member of the Gambacunkou Formation remains predominantly endemic, whereas the presence of the cosmopolitan taxa P. (P.) vesiculosa and C. (C.) virgatus is significant for biogeographic correlations. P. (P.) vesiculosa is widely distributed in Europe, Africa, and southern India and is a marker species of the Late Cenomanian (Ayyasami, 2006; Abdel-Gawad et al., 2004; Ahmad et al., 2015); C. (C.) virgatus is widely distributed from the Cenomanian to Maastrichtian stages in Europe, America, Africa, and India (Malchus et al., 1994). Considering the age of the overlying Zongshan Formation, the age of the bivalve assemblage in the upper part of the Gambacunkou Formation can be tentatively determined as Late Cenomanian to Coniacian. The absence of Gondwanan cold-water bivalves in this assemblage and the presence of the oyster P. (P.) vesiculosa suggest that the Tethyan Himalayan zone left the high-latitude, cold-water region of the Southern Hemisphere and drifted north into the temperate zone, at least by the Late Cenomanian. The absence of rudists in this assemblage suggests that Tethyan Himalayan zone should have been located south of approximately 30°S at that time (Rao et al., 2019).

The Zongshan Formation is also generally divided into upper and lower members, with the bivalves of the lower member comprising the Neithea (Neithea) regularis-Aetostreon zongshanensis assemblage (Wen et al., 1976; Gou, 1985b; Wen, 1999). N. (N.) regularis is widely distributed in the Albian to Maastrichtian strata of Europe, the Middle East, and South Africa (Dhondt, 1973; Nagm and Boualem, 2019), and Amphidonte ostracina has been reported in the Campania to Maastrichtian strata of Europe and southern India (Ayyasami, 2006). Considering the age of the co-occurring fossils such as foraminifera, the age of the lower member in this study was assigned to the Santonian to Middle Campanian (Wan et al., 2000; Fang et al., 2020).

The bivalves in the upper member of the Zongshan Formation are represented by the Bournonia haydeni-- Plagioptychus tibetica assemblage (Douvillé, 1916b; Wen et al. 1976; Gou, 1985b; Wen, 1999). Based on the age of the underlying strata and foraminifera present in the upper member, this bivalve assemblage was dated to the Late Campanian to Maastrichtian (Wan et al., 2000; Fang et al., 2020). This assemblage is characterized by an extreme abundance of rudists, an inequivalent, thick-shelled warm-water bivalve that originated in the Late Jurassic Oxfordian and became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous. Rudists are mainly found in carbonate platforms that developed in equatorial Tethys-Atlantic-tropical Pacific oceanic areas (Rao et al., 2015). Their abundance in the upper part of the Zongshan Formation suggests that the Tethyan Himalaya zone have already drifted northward into the tropical region north of 30 °S (Wen, 1997, 1999; Rao et al., 2019). Most rudists in this assemblage are undetermined or endemic species; however, the presence of B. haydeni, previously reported from the Campanian of Kabul, Afghanistan (Vogel, 1971), is important for biogeographic correlations. The presence of B. haydeni in Kabul, Afghanistan, along the northern margin of the Eastern Tethys, and in the Tethyan Himalaya zone on the southern margin, indicates that the Eastern Tethys has been progressively closing owing to the northward drift of the Indian Plate since the Late Campanian. The northward drift of the Indian Plate has facilitated species exchange between sessile benthic bivalves across the northern and southern Tethyan margins, resulting in increasingly similar assemblages (Rao et al., 2019).

Cretaceous bivalves of the Lhasa Terrane have been reported mainly in three sedimentary zones: the central-northern Lhasa Terrane, Linzhou Basin near the city of Lhasa, and Xigaze Forearc Basin on the southern margin. The bivalves in the central-northern Lhasa Terrane are documented in the Duoni and Langshan formations, both of which are diachronous with varying ages in different regions, and the deposition of the Langshan Formation extends to the Early Cenomanian (Boudagher-Fadel et al., 2017; Xu et al., 2022). In the Geji area, which is characterized by marine limestones and mixed sediments, the Tangza Formation is unconformably overlain by the Jingzhushan Formation. Foraminifera constrain the age of the Tangza Formation to the Cenomanian (Ye et al., 2019). This formation also yields bivalve fossils; however, systematic paleontological studies are yet to be conducted. (Ye et al., 2019).

The bivalves of the Duoni Formation comprise three assemblages in ascending order: the non-marine Peregrinoconcha yunnanensis-Sinonaia perlonga assemblage from Early Hauterivian to Barremian, the non-marine Trigonioides (Trigonioides) kodairai - Trigonioides (Diversitrigonioides) xizangensis assemblage from Aptian to Albian, and the marine Nanonavis carinatus- Linotrigonia shadingensis assemblage from Aptian to  Albian. Previously, the P. yunnanensis-S. perlonga assemblage has been reported from the Baxoi and Lhorong areas, which is dominated by trigonioids and belongs to the "Jingxing Fauna" (Chen, 2009). The bivalves of the Jingxing Fauna were first reported from the Jingxing Formation in western and southern Yunnan (Ma et al., 1976; Nanjing Institute of Geology and Paleontology, CAS, “Fossil Bivalvia in China”, 1976), later records include the Zhaworong Formation (Xueshan Formation) of the Yanshiping Group in the Yushu and Tanggula Mts. of the Qinghai Province (Zhang et al., 1979; Yin, 1990), and the Lagongtang Formation in eastern Tibet (Chen et al., 1983). However, Guo (1997a) considered the fossil-bearing strata to belong to the Duoni Formation based on stratigraphic and fossil analyses. This assemblage has been reported abroad from the Korat Plateau of Thailand (Chen, 2009; Chen and Stiller, 2016) and the Vientiane region of Laos (Yan et al., 2006; Wu et al., 2007), and can be compared with the Kuwajima and Okurodani formations in Honshu, Japan, and the Myogog Formation in the Gyeongsang region of southeastern Korea. Based on the evolutionary relationships of the trigonioid taxa, combined with the paleobiogeographic correlation with adjacent regions, the age of this bivalve assemblage was assigned to the Hauterivian to Barremian (Sha et al. 2012; Barrett and Ohashi, 2016; Sano and Yabe, 2017).

The non-marine bivalve of the upper Duoni Formation is the Trigonioides (Trigonioides) kodairai- Trigonioides (Diversitrigonioides) xizangensis assemblage (Wen, 1987; Wen, 1999; Sha, 2007). T. (T.) kodairai is a key species within the Barremian to Albian trigonioid assemblage, which includes Nippononaia (Nippononaia) ryosekiana-Koreanaia (Koreanaia) bongkyuni-Trigonioides (Wakinoa) wakinoensis-T. (T.) kodairai-T. (T.) quadratus-Plicatounio (Plicatounio) naktongensis-Pseudohyria (Matsumotoina) matsumotoi (Sha, 2007). This assemblage is dated as Aptian to Albian, predominantly Aptian, considering that the shell ornamentation and hinge structure of the species are more complex and developed than those of the underlying Lower Hauterivian to Barremian Peregrinoconcha yunnanensis-Sinonaia perlonga assemblage (Sha, 2007). Note that this assemblage has been reported from both the Duoni and Duoba formations, which are often treated as synonyms; however, Hu et al. (2022) considered the Duoba Formation to be a valid formation name because the two units have different detrital sources. Furthermore, Pan et al. (2016) reported Trigonioides (Trigonioides) quadratus from the Zenong Group in the Baingoin area, which is the same age as the trigonioid assemblage from the upper part of the Duoni Formation.

The Nanonavis carinatus- Linotrigonia shadingensis assemblage from the upper part of the Duoni Formation has been reported in the Bianba and Lhorong areas of eastern Tibet (Yang and Chen, 1983). Except for a few endemic species, most are widely distributed in the Aptian to Albian region of Europe; therefore, the age of the assemblage is assigned as Aptian to Albian (Woods, 1906; Yang and Chen, 1983; Wen, 1999).

The bivalves of the Langshan Formation are characterized by the flourishing of rudists and the Auroradiolites biconvexus-Magallanesia rutogensis assemblage, which represents a Late Aptian to Albian age and is consistent with the age indicated by foraminiferal fossils (Yang et al. 1982; Gou and Shi, 1998; Rao et al. 2015, 2019, 2020). This rudist assemblage is widely distributed in central Iran, Afghanistan, Ladakh, Lhasa Terrane, Hokkaido, and Takuyo-Daini Seamounts in Japan, and Cebu Island in the Philippines, which were located at the northern margin of the Eastern Tethys and the central-western Pacific Ocean during the mid-Cretaceous. The mid-Cretaceous SW Asia/Pacific province was recognized by Rao et al. (2015, 2017, 2019a) based on the occurrence of the endemic rudist taxon Auroradiolites and the associated polyconitid lineage Horiopleura haydeni–Praecaprotina–Magallanesia. In addition to rudists, the Langshan Formation also contains other marine bivalves such as Gervillaria xainzaensis, G. maryoensis, Fenestricardita fenestrata, Xenocardita sp., Neithea (Neithea) syriaca, Ludbrookia sp., Myopholas sp., suggesting an Aptian to Albian age (Wen, 1987).

The Early Cretaceous bivalves from the Xigaze Forearc Basin are Auroradiolites biconvexus-Magallanesia rutogensis rudist assemblages from the Sangzugang Formation (Wen et al. 1976; Rao et al. 2017, 2019). Rudists in the Sangzugang Formation are comparable to those in the Langshan Formation. The rudists reported from the Sangzugang Formation are not as abundant as those from the Langshan Formation, highlighting the need for detailed biostratigraphic work on the Sangzugang Formation. The age of the Sangzugang Formation is Aptian-Albian, as indicated by foraminiferal fossils (Rao et al., 2017; Boudagher-Fadel et al., 2017), and this rudist assemblage is Late Aptian–Albian (Rao et al., 2019).

Late Cretaceous bivalves of the Xigaze Forearc Basin have been reported from the Padana and Qubeiya formations, listing only taxa without detailed descriptions (Wen, 1999). The bivalves of the Padana Formation are represented by the Cyprimeria analoga--Camptonectes (Camptonectes) virgatus assemblage, which dates to the Coniacian. Inoceramya? xizangensi and Camptonectes (Camptonectes) virgatus have also been reported in the upper part of the Gambacunkou Formation in the Tethyan Himalayan zone. The bivalves of the Qubeiya Formation consist of the Amphidonte ostracina-Pholadomya radiatula assemblage, indicating a Campanian to Maastrichtian age. Among them, Amphidonte ostracina has been reported from the Campanian and Maastrichtian in Europe and southern India, as well as from the lower part of the Zongsan Formation in the Tethyan Himalayan zone.

Cretaceous bivalves from the Linzhou Basin have been reported in the Linbuzong, Takna, and Shixing formations (Gou, 1985c, 1986; Cai, 1998). The Freiastarte subcostata-Astarte formosa assemblage was reported from the upper part of the Linbuzong Formation and consists of a few small species dominated by astartids (Gou, 1985c). In this assemblage, Freiastarte subcostata is common in the Aptian of the Mediterranean and northwestern Europe and Astarte formosa was found in the overlying Albian strata (Woods, 1906). This assemblage represents the Aptian to Albian age and is similar to bivalves from northern Europe. However, the age indicated by this assemblage was consistent with that of the overlying Takena Formation. Because the illustrations in Gou (1985c) are blurry and the specimens may have been lost, it is difficult to re-examine the fossils. Therefore, the bivalves of the Linbuzong Formation require further study based on new materials.

Bivalves of the Takena Formation are abundant and represented by the Pterotrigonia (Pterotrigonia) cf. hokkaidoana-Opis (Trigonopis) suboblique assemblage (Gou, 1985c; Cai, 1998). Most of the genera in this assemblage are widely distributed in the Aptian of northern Europe, the Mediterranean, and Japan, while a few genera have a wider chronological range, such as Neithea (Neithea) quinquecostata, which is found from the Barremian to Maastrichtian in Europe, North America, and southern India; and Goshoraia crenulata, which has been reported from the Aptian to Albian in Europe and Japan. The bivalves in the Takena Formation are Aptian to Albian in age, and are mainly Aptian. The assemblage showed affinities with bivalve fauna from regions along the southern margin of the Northern Continent, including northern Europe, the Mediterranean, and Japan.

Bivalve fossils of the Shexing Formation include the Pycnodonte ( Phygraea) vesiculosa-Amphidonte ostracina assemblage (Gou, 1985c), which is dominated by oysters. Pycnodonte (Phygraea) vesiculosa is widely distributed in the Late Cenomanian in Europe, Africa, and southern India, and in the upper part of the Gambacunkou Formation in southern Tibet. Amphidonte ostracina has been identified in the Campanian and Maastrichtian strata of Europe and southern India, the lower part of the Zongshan Formation in southern Tibet, and the Qubeiya Formation in the Xigaze Forearc Basin. This assemblage may have a wide chronological range extending from the Late Cenomanian to the Campanian, and possibly into the Maastrichtian, and shows similarities to bivalves from the northern and southern margins of the Indian Plate.

The Early Cretaceous bivalves of the Qiangtang Terrane are represented by the Peregrinoconcha yunnanensis-Sinonaia perlonga assemblage of the Xueshan Formation (Wen, 1979; Yang and Yin, 1988; Yin, 1990; Yin et al. 1993). This assemblage is consistent with the bivalves of the lower part of the Duoni Formation in the Lhasa Terrane, which are Hauterivian-Barremian.

Rudists in the Karakorum region have been found in the Lower Cretaceous Yapachin Group (the existence of which is still debated) and the Upper Cretaceous Tielongtan Group (which can be further subdivided into the Xiluokezong, Litian, and Dongluokezong formations, in ascending order) (Douvillé, 1916a; Parona, 1917, 1928; Klinghardt, 1934; Yang, 1984; Matte et al. 1996; Wen, 1998; Wen et al., 2000a, 2000b; Wen, 1999; Scott et al. 2010; Sha et al. 2020). The Yapachin Group contains Auroradiolites gilgitensis (Matte et al., 1996), which is endemic to southern Asia and the Hokkaido region of the western Pacific and ranges in age from  Aptian to  Albian (Rao et al., 2015, 2017; Barman et al., 2023). However, based on Rao’s field observations, this genus may have extended into the Cenomanian. The Xiluokezong Formation contains the Eoradiolites hedini-Hippurites requieni rudist assemblage (Douvillé, 1916a; Parona, 1917, 1928; Klinghardt, 1934; Sha et al., 2020). Eoradiolites hedini is morphologically similar to the Cenomanian species Eoradiolites fleuriausus, which is distributed in France, Italy, Croatia, Romania, Tunisia and Somalia (Pons et al., 2011, 2012); Hippurites requieni has been recorded in the Turonian of Albania, Bosnia, France, Italy, Croatia, France, and Jordan (Korbar and Husinec, 2003; Chikhi-Aouimeur, 2007); Sauvagesia garianica has been reported from the Turonian of Libya and Tunisia (Parona, 1921; Busson, 1967); Radiolites lusitanicus has been found in Albania, Bosnia, Bulgaria, France, Italy, Croatia, Libya, Portugal, Lebanon, Tunisia, Egypt, etc. from the Cenomanian to Coniacian, but mainly in the Turonian (e.g. Steuber and Löser, 2000; Zakhera, 2011). Based on the above evidence, the rudists of the Xiluokezong Formation indicate a Cenomanian to Coniacian age, mainly in the Turonian, and most are widely distributed in the northern and southern margins of the Tethys, showing similarities to the rudists of the Mediterranean and Middle Eastern regions.

The bivalves of the Litian Formation are represented by the rudist assemblage Hippurites-Lapeirousia, all of which have been identified to the generic level or as undetermined species (Wen et al., 1999; Sha et al., 2020). The stratigraphic ranges of Laperiousia is from Late Coniacian to Maastrichtian, Distefanella is from Cenomanian to Maastrichtian, Hippurites is from Turonian to Maastrichtian, Gorjanovicia is from Coniacian to Maastrichtian, and Radiolites is from Albian to Maastrichtian, respectively (Steuber et al., 2016), making it difficult to determine the age of the Litian Formation based on reported rudists. Sha et al. (2020) reported foraminiferal fossils in the carbonate matrix embedding Radiolites sp. specimens from the Litian and Dongluokezong formations, suggesting that this foraminiferal assemblage is Late Santonian to at least mid-Campanian in age. Considering the ages of the underlying and overlying strata, the Litian Formation has been tentatively assigned a Coniacian to Santonian age.

The bivalve of the Dongluokezong Formation is the Gorjanovicia cf. endrissi-Radiolites sp. rudist assemblage (Wen et al., 1999; Sha et al., 2020). Gorjanovicia endrissi is mainly distributed in the Campanian of the Mediterranean region (Fenci-Masse et al., 2011), whereas other taxa in the assemblage can extend into the Maastrichtian. Combined with the age of the foraminifers in the Dongluokezong Formation, which can also extend into the Maastrichtian (Sha et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2023), the age of this rudist assemblage was assigned as Campanian to Maastrichtian.

Cretaceous bivalves from the Tarim Basin have mainly been reported in the Upper Cretaceous Kukebai and Yigeziya Formations in the western part of the basin (Yang, 1984; Lan and Wei, 1995; Li et al., 2016; Rao et al., 2023). Bivalves from the lower part of the Kukebai Formation are represented by the Flaventia ovalis-Ichthyosarcolites tricarinatus assemblage with a stratigraphic range extending from the Upper Albian (?) to Lower Cenomanian. The middle part of the Kukebai Formation consists of the Rhynchostreon plicatulum- Costagyra olisiponensis- Pycnodonte (Phygraea) tucumcarii assemblage, which is characterized by an abundance of oyster fossils and indicates a Middle to Late Cenomanian age. The upper part of the Kukebai Formation consists of the Korobkovtrigonia- Plicatula- Mytiloides labiatus- Rhynchostreon assemblage, which is mainly of the Early Turonian age and may include the Late Cenomanian age. The lower, middle, and upper bivalve assemblages of the Kukebai Formation have similar biogeographical characteristics, all of which show similarities and affinities with contemporaneous bivalves from Central Asia, the Mediterranean, and Northern Europe, such as the United Kingdom.

The bivalve of the lower member of the Yigeziya Formation belongs to the Lapeirousella qiemoganensis- Sauvagesia- Arctostrea falcata assemblage. Lapeirousella qiemoganensis and Sauvagesia sp. are rudists. Sauvagesia sp. is morphologically similar to Radiolites aurigerensis, which is distributed in the Santonian to Campanian Mediterranean region (Toucas, 1908). Arctostrea falcata is Campanian-to-Maastrichtian. Therefore, the age of this assemblage is probably Campanian. The bivalves in the middle member are represented by the Gyropleura-Lima-Neithea assemblage, which is of Late Campanian to Early Maastrichtian age (Rao et al., 2023). The upper member of the Yigeziya Formation is characterized by the rudist assemblage Biradiolites boldjuanensis- Osculigera oytarensis, of which Biradiolites boldjuanensis occurs in the Lower Maastrichtian of Central Asia and is similar to the Campanian to Maastrichtian Caribbean B. mooretownensis (Rao, 2019). Rao et al. (2023) suggested that Osculigera oytarensis is comparable to O. cleggi from the Campanian and Maastrichtian strata of eastern Iran and Afghanistan. In conclusion, the age of this assemblage was assigned as Maastrichtian. The lower, middle, and upper members of the Yigeziya Formation are characterized by an abundance of rudists. Previous studies have suggested that most rudists in this formation are endemic taxa whose distribution is restricted to Central Asia. However, based on paleobiogeographic correlations, Rao et al. (2023) concluded that the rudists of the Yigeziya Formation are comparable to contemporaneous species occurring in the adjacent sedimentary basin of Central Asia as well as in the Mediterranean, Iran, Afghanistan, and Arabian regions.

4.2.5 Ammonite

The Cretaceous strata, particularly the Early Cretaceous strata in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau, boast a wealth of ammonite fossils. In the early 20th century, Douville (1916) identified six ammonite species typified by turrilites during the mid-Cretaceous period. Zhao (1976) furthered this exploration by identifying and correlating ammonite fossils gathered by the Tibet Scientific Research Team and Geological Team in the Gamba–Tingri–Gyangze area. Wang et al. (1980) provided additional insights into the Cretaceous ammonite fauna in the Gamba area, whereas Liu (1983, 1988) investigated the Early Cretaceous ammonites in the Gyangze and Lhasa blocks. Xu et al. (1989) reported specific ammonite fossils, and Jiarun (2016) systematically summarized Cretaceous ammonite fossils and their biostratigraphic correlations on the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau. Moreover, Yi and Wang (2001) reported the youngest known group of ammonites in Zhongba County, China, while Immol and He (2002) reported ammonites from the Albian period in the Gamba region. Additionally, Bloomberg et al. (2014) conducted a study on the ammonites of the Chaqila Formation and established three assemblages, whereas Chen et al. (2018) established two early Aptian ammonite belts, namely the D. Forbesi and D. Deshayesi ammonite belts. Li et al. (2020) summarized the ammonite biostratigraphy of the Cretaceous in southern Tibet. In addition, a small amount of ammonite fossils have been reported in Lhasa Block and western Tarim Basin (He and Xia, 1984; Zhou et al., 2001; Wang et al., 2022)

Building upon the work of Yin (2016) and incorporating various published ammonite fossil data, the present study categorized and established 11 ammonite belts in the Tethyan Himalayan belt. The Early Cretaceous ammonites in the Tethyan Himalayan zone can be divided into nine assemblages from bottom to top: Spiticeras-Hydropachycera (Berriasian stage), Giumalicheras-Calliptychoceras (early Valanginian stage), Valanginites-Dioloceas (late Valanginian stage), Neohoploceras-Holcoptychites (Hauterivian stage), Australiceras-Cheloniceras (Aptian stage), Tonohanites-Parahoplites trautscholdi (early Albian stage), Cymoplites-Lemuroceras xizangense (late Albian), Lemuroceras sp.-Heplites cf. Cananvarii (mid-Albian), and Goodhallites-Mortoniceras-Callihoplites (late Albian) assemblages (Ying, 2006). In the Late Cretaceous, two assemblages were identified, namely, the Calycoeras centomanense-Mantelliceras-Acanthoceras cf. rhodomagense assemblage from the Cenomanian period and the Pachydis Gambaensis-Forbesiceras beaumontianum-Manambolites assemblage from the Campanian period (Ying, 2016; Li et al., 2020).

4.2.6 Ostracods

While most ostracoda fossils in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau are marine, certain terrestrial ostracoda have also been reported. Accordingly, the academic focus has predominantly been on the study of marine ostracods in South Tibet, the Lhasa block, and the western Tarim Basin (Huang, 1975; Ye, 1987; Yang et al., 1995; Xi et al., 2020).

Early Cretaceous marine ostracod fossils are found primarily in the Lhasa block. Ye (1987) reported Ostracoda fossils, including Marinella lugeoni and Lithocodium aggregatum in the Early Cretaceous Taxna Formation. Other ostracoda fossils, namely Salpingoporella turgida, Acroporella radonicae, and Permocalculus cf. inopitanus, were reported in the Langshan Formation. Late Cretaceous marine Ostracoda fossils have been primarily identified in southern Tibet and the western Tarim Basin. Meanwhile, sporadic reports in the Tethyan–Himalayan Belt have included Cytherella tuberculifera, Cytherelloidea biloculata, and Xestoleberis taxa (Huang, 1975; Li et al., 2020). Ostracoda fossils in the western Tarim Basin are abundant and, thus, the subject of diverse systematic studies. The Ostracoda class in the upper-middle section of the Kukebai Formation is divided into the Ovocytheridea bashibulakeensis-Cytoella wuqiaensis-Schulerideairinae (Schuleridea," "Schulerideidae") assemblage. The upper section of the Kukebai Formation is divided into the Ovocytheridea akedaoensis-Venenia mandelstami-Sarlatina leguminoformes assemblage. The Wuyitake Formation exhibits fewer ostracod species, belonging to the Brachycythere-Pontocypris-Schuleridea assemblage (Yang et al., 1995). The Yigeziya Formation is part of the Sarlatina-Ovacytherideaa group of ostracods, whereas the Tuyiluoke Formation has a limited number of ostracods and belongs to the Cytoidea-Paracypris assemblage (Yang et al., 1995; Xi et al., 2020).

4.2.7 Dinoflagellates

The dinoflagellate fossils are primarily concentrated in the Tethys Himalaya region and the western Tarim Basin (Mao and Norris, 1988; He et al., 1991; Li et al., 2013, 2019; Li J G et al., 2016; Zhang et al., 2022). Within the Tethys Himalayan region, the upper portion of the Weimei Formation and lower portion of the Jiabula Formation in the Chuangde section of Jiangzi exhibit notable dinoflagellate fossil abundance, as does the Gambadongshan Formation and Gambacunkou Formation in the Chaqiela section of Gamba (Li et al., 2013; Li J G et al., 2016; Li et al., 2019). Accordingly, four distinct dinoflagellate fossil assemblages can be identified: Schematophora amabilis-Batiacasphaera angularis assemblage (Late Tithonian-Berriasian), Dingodinium officiculum-Cauca parva assemblage (Aptian-Albian), Circulodinium distinguisham- Litosphaeridia siphonophorum assemblage (Cenomanian to Middle Turonian), and Alterbidinium papillatum-Sengalidinium aevigatum assemblage (Late Turonian to Coniacian). Late Cretaceous dinoflagellate fossils developed extensively within the Tarim Basin, leading to the establishment of a detailed dinoflagellate fossil assemblage or fossil belt (Mao and Norris, 1988; He et al., 1991; Xi et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2022)

4.2.8 Spores and Pollen

Spore and pollen fossils are notably abundant in the Cretaceous strata of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its adjacent areas, with important roles in establishing correlations between marine and terrestrial stratigraphy (Zhang and Zhan, 1991; Li J G et al., 2008, 2015, 2016, 2019, 2020; Lin and Li, 2019; Bai et al., 2021). Recently, a detailed summary of the palynomorph biostratigraphy of the Tethyan Himalaya zone was carried out by Li et al. (2020). The Cretaceous palynoflora in south Tibet can be categorized into the early Microcachryidites antarcticus–Crybelosporites zone and later Gabonisporis–Crybelosporites pannuceus zone; the latter is further divided into three subzones from bottom to top: the Cicatricosisporites–Crybelosporites stylosus, Cyclosporites hughesii, and Crybelosporites striatus subzones (Li et al., 2020). In addition, the Cretaceous strata of the western Tarim Basin Basin, Qiangtang Basin, Lhasa block, and other areas also yield relatively abundant spore and pollen fossils (Zhang and Zhan, 1991; Lin and Li, 2019; Bai et al., 2021).

4.2.9 Other fossils

Beyond the previously mentioned fossils, marine fossils in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and surrounding areas encompass a diverse array including gastropods, belemnites, brachiopods, corals, and echinoderms.

Belemnites: Cretaceous belemnites are primarily distributed in the Tethyan Himalayan zone and Lhasa block, forming the Hibolites parastastus-H. Jibulensis assemblage (Valanginian) (Yang and Wu, 1964; Wu, 1982). This assemblage is characterized by a marked increase in Hibolites. The latest cluster isotope data suggests their preference for water temperatures ranging from 10–18 ℃, potentially reflective of rapid-swimming behavior with vertical movement in seawater (Wang et al., 2023). Additional typical species of this assemblage include Hibolites subfusiformis, H. verbeeki, H. xizangensis, H. elongata, and H. jiangziensis, as well as Belemnopsis, such as B. sinensis and B. uhligi (Yang and Wu, 1964; Wu, 1982).

Brachiopods: Cretaceous brachiopod fossils are found primarily within the Lhasa block, Karakoram block, Tethyan Himalayan zone, and western Tarim Basin (Sun et al., 1987, 1991; Wen et al., 2000b). In the Lhasa block, these fossils are located in the Lower Cretaceous strata, with four assemblages from bottom to top: the Zeillenina younzhuensis (Berriasian), Peregrinella cheboensis-Peregrinella baingoinensis (Valanginian to Hauterivian), Sellithyris pentagonalis-Praelongithiris rhambiformis (Aptian), and Orbirhynchia granula-Parakingena xainzaensis (Albian) assemblages (Wen et al., 2000a). In the western Tarim Basin, brachiopod fossils are largely found in the Late Cretaceous Campanian period, belonging to the Carneithys petilis-Xinjianghys ovalis assemblage (Sun et al., 1991).

Gastropods: Cretaceous gastropod fossils have been detected primarily within the Tethyan Himalayan zone, Lhasa block, and western Tarim Basin (Yu, 1975; Wang and Yang, 1992; Pan, 1991; Meng et al., 2017). In the Lhasa block, three assemblages have been identified from bottom to top: the Adiozoptyxis affinis-Pyrods garmacensis (Berriasian), Paraglauconia trotteri-Valangnella multispiralis assemblages (Aptian), and Nerinea multilamellosa - Adiozoptyxia coquendiana (Albian) assemblages (Yu, 1975; Wang and Yang, 1992; Wen et al., 2000a). In the west Tarim Basin, five discernible assemblages are recognized: the Vernedia pusillina-Haustator (Cenomanian), Ascensovoluta angusta-Gyrodes tenellus (early Turonian), Helicalax lalimensis-Hausitor acanthophotus (late Turonian), Trochaceae wuyitakensis-Actaeonella micra (Coniacian-Santonian), and Cantharus subbabbreviatus-Trochactaeon yengisarensis (Campanian) assemblages (Pan, 1991).

Corals: Corals have been identified primarily in the Early Cretaceous strata of the Lhasa block (Liao, 1994; Löser and Liao, 2001; Li H et al., 2017; Meng Y Z et al., 2017; Wang Y S et al., 2020). Three assemblages are recognized from bottom to top: the Opisthophyllum vesiculare-Stylina parvistella (Valanginian), Actinastraea pseudominima-Ellipsocoenia turbinata (Aptian), and Eohydnophora tosaensis-Aulastraeopora deangelisi (Albian) assemblages.

Echinoderms: Echinoderm are predominantly within the Late Cretaceous strata of the Tethys Himalaya and western Tarim Basin, with a smaller presence in the Early Cretaceous strata of the Lhasa block (Mu and Wu, 1975; Yang, 1991; Tu, 2018). In the Tethys Himalayan stratigraphic zone, they can be divided into two assemblages from bottom to top, namely, the Hemiaster assemblage of the Coniacian period and Hemipneustes assemblage of the Maastrichtian period. In the west Tarim Basin, there are three assemblages, from bottom to top: Hemiaster expansus of the Cenomanian period, Nucleopygus-Hemiaster of the Turonian period, and the Nucleopygus zone of the Maastrichtian period (Yang, 1991).

4.3 Radiometric geochronology

The Cretaceous strata in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas are rich in volcanic or tuff interlayers, providing accurate radiometric geochronological evidence for stratigraphic division and comparison. Numerous radiometric geochronology studies have been conducted on the Cretaceous volcanic rocks in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau (e.g. Zhu et al., 2009, 2012, 2023; Chen et al., 2017; Tang et al., 2024). This paper focuses on the volcanic/tuff of the sedimentary strata or interbedded sedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas. Additionally, critical radiometric chronological data are summarized (for details see Network Appendix 1).

Network Appendix 1 (http:earthcn.scichina.com) Chronological data of Cretaceous volcanic rocks and tuff in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

In the northern Tethyan Himalayan zone, the Sangxiu Formation contains many volcanic rocks, with zircon U-Pb ages between 141 and 131 Ma (Zhu et al., 2005, 2009; Wan et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2013; Tian et al., 2021). SIMS zircon U-Pb dating of the tuff layer of the Angren Formation in the Xigaze forearc basin was carried out by Wang et al. (2017a). The Shexing, Dhoni, Langshan, Jingzhushan, and Abushan formations in the Lhasa Block and Qiangtang Basin are rich in volcanic rock/tuff and have thus been the focus of considerable chronological research (Table 3). Additionally, Cretaceous volcanic rock/tuff has also been identified within the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau, including in the Mengyejing Formation (Wang et al. 2015), Paung Chaung Formation or stratigraphy of the Burmese Kachin bearing, the Kabaw Formation and Puanggy Formation of Myanmar (Shi et al., 2012; Xing and Qiu, 2020; Zheng et al., Huang et al., 2018), the Tuoyun Formation of the Tarim Basin (Sobeland Arnaud, 2000; Lhuillieret al., 2016) and the Deccan basalt (Schoene et al., 2019; Sprain et al., 2019). Notably, considerable progress has been made in high-precision geochronology for the Deccan basalt in the Indian Plate, promoting the development of isotopic dating (e.g. Schoene et al., 2019; Sprain et al., 2019)

Overall, with the exception of select high-precision CA-ID-TIMS zircon U-Pb and feldspar 40Ar/39Ar dating carried out on the Indian Deccan basalt, as well as a few Ar-Ar and SIMS zircon U-Pb dating studies, the most commonly adopted radiometric chronology method throughout the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas is LA-ICP-MS zircon U-Pb dating. Meanwhile, select high-precision dating analyses have been carried out by professional isotope chronology experts. However, the accuracy of different dating methods varies, with the uncertainty of LA-ICPMS zircon U-Pb dating reportedly ~4% (2RSD) (Li, 2015). Hence, significantly more radiometric geochronology studies are needed to characterize the stratigraphic correlation of the Cretaceous period in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas.

4.4 Sequence, chemical, magnetic, and cyclic stratigraphy

4.4.1 Sequence stratigraphy

South Tibet is the preferred area for studying Mesozoic marine sequence stratigraphy in China (Shi et al., 1996; Wang et al., 2000; Wang et al., 2005). Based on previous work, Li et al. (2003) performed a detailed study of outcrop sequence stratigraphy on the Cretaceous system in the southern and northern subzones of the Tethyan Himalayan zone, identifying 24 third-order sequences, 5 sequence groups, and 2 second-order sequences in the southern subzone, and 22 third-order sequences, 5 sequence groups, and 2 second-order sequences in the northern subzone. This shows that the sequence stratigraphy of the Early Cretaceous in the Tethyan Himalayas is generally a regressive sequence of marine progression, reflecting the expansion stage of the Tethys oceanic crust. In contrast, the Late Cretaceous sequence strata are generally represented by a regressive progradation sequence, reflecting the continuous contraction of the Tethys Ocean and gradual decline in sea level over an extended period. Based on the analysis of sequence, sedimentary, and paleontological characteristics, the characteristics of marine transgressions and regressions of the Tethyan Himalayas during the Cretaceous are consistent with global sea level changes during the same period (Haq, 2014).

4.4.2 Chemostratigraphy

Carbon isotope stratigraphy plays an important role in Cretaceous stratigraphic correlations (Jarvis et al., 2006; Wendler, 2013). Cretaceous stratigraphy in southern Tibet is developed, withsystematic work on carbon isotope stratigraphy  (Wan et al., 2003a; Li et al. 2006, 2016; Wendler et al., 2009, 2011; Zhang et al. 2016; Chen et al., 2017; Li Y X et al., 2017; Yao et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2023). For example, Wang et al. (2023) identified the Weissert event in the Eastern Tethys region of southern Tibet based on carbon isotope curves of well-preserved Early Cretaceous Vulanite in Gyangze. The classical Late Cretaceous carbon isotope curve of the Cenoman-Maastrichtian carbonate rocks was established at high resolution in the Tingri Gonza profile and isotopic events (Li et al. 2006) (Fig. 13). Subsequently, based on the carbon isotopes of whole-rock carbonates, carbon isotope curves of the middle Alboutian to the bottom of the Cenoman stage was established; OAE1b, OAE1c, and OAE1d events were identified (Li et al. 2016; Yao et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2022), establishing a high-resolution carbon isotope curve for the OAE2 event layer (Li Y X et al., 2017). Others have conducted research on organic carbon isotopes, resulting in the development of an early Aptian-Campanian carbon isotope curve and identification of geological events, such as OAE1a, OAE1b, and OAE2, based on carbon isotope drift (Chen et al., 2016; Zhang et al., 2016). In addition, the Sr isotope curve is an integral component of Cretaceous stratigraphic correlation analyses. Thus, Huang et al. (2005) established this curve for the Santonian–Maastrichtian period, enabling comparison with the global curve.

4.4.3 Magnetostratigraphy

Owing to the strong structural failure, Cretaceous paleomagnetism in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau focuses more on paleomagnetism and other facets than magnetostratigraphy. Nevertheless, Yuan et al. (2021) analyzed and correlated the magnetostratigraphy of the Upper Cretaceous in the Cailangba section of southern Tibet; Bian et al. (2022) analyzed magnetostratigraphy of the Jiabula Formation in the Zhongba area of Tethyan Himalayan and dated it to 117.7 ~ 94.4 Ma. Meanwhile, Li et al. (2016) identified the Late Cretaceous at 96–73 Ma in the Jingzhushan Formation of the Qiangtang Basin by the magnetostratigrapic correlation. Others have carried out magnetostratigraphic correlations in the Simao Basin,Khorat Basin and other area of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas (e.g.Yan et al., 2021).

4.4.4 Cyclostratigraphy

The Cretaceous strata of the Tibetan-Plateau and its surrounding areas have the potential to develop cyclostratigraphy (Ma et al., 2009; Chen et al., 2015). Currently, cyclostratigraphy has only been applied for the Turonian Coniacian strata, as well as several oceanic anoxic event layers, such as OAE1b, OAE1c, and OAE2. Li et al. (2019) proposed that the duration of the OAE2 event was 820 kyr based on an analysis of the cyclostratigraphy of the Gongzha section, Tingri area. Liu et al. (2022) proposed 677 kyr for OAE1b and 563 kyr for OAE1c based on their study of cyclostratigraphy in the Nirang sectio, Gamba area.

4.5 Event stratigraphy

Event stratigraphy plays an important role in high-resolution stratigraphic classification and correlation and has been widely used in recent years. A number of widely comparable major geological events occurred during the Cretaceous on the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas, including OAE, the Deccan LIP, the K–Pg boundary extinction, and the Cenomanian–Turonian and Santonian–Campanian boundary events. The oceanic anoxic events Weissert, OAE2, OAE1a, OAE1b, OAE1c, and OAE1d have been identified (Li et al., 2006; Chen et al., 2017; Li YX et al., 2017; Liu et al., 2022; Wang et al., 20234; Figure 13). The eruption of the Deccan Igneous Province and the K–Pg boundary extinction event have a global impact and can be widely tracked (Schoene et al., 2019; Pincelli et al., 2020). The boundary between the Santonian and Campanian stages is primarily marked by the end of Cretaceous normal superchron ( CNS), with the disappearance of planktonic foraminifera D. asymetrica as auxiliary markers. The latter has been identified in the Gucuo section in Tingri area (Li and Li, 2019). In addition, a series of carbon isotope excursion events occurred during the Cretaceous period that have been recorded in the marine strata of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and can be compared globally (Li et al., 2016; Wendler et al., 2009, 2011). The geological events of the Cretaceous period on the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau will be further discussed in the following text (part 6.1).

4.6 Comprehensive stratigraphic framework of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding regions

Based on the lithstratigraphy, biostratigraphy, chemostratigraphy, and radiometric geochronology of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas, of which the Tethyan Himalayan zone was the focus, a comprehensive stratigraphy was provided (Figure 14). The planktonic foraminifera, calcareous nanofossils, radiolarians, bivalves, and ammonites of the Tethyan Himalayan zone can be correlated globally or on a large scale. Stable carbon isotopes play an important role in the stratigraphic division and correlation of the Tethyan Himalayan zone and can be correlated globally. In addition, a series of major Cretaceous geological events were recorded via stratigraphic analysis of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and can be correlated globally (Wang et al., 2005; Wan et al., 2007; Xi et al., 2019; Li G B et al., 2020).

5. Cretaceous biota and paleogeographic evolution in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and surrounding areas

The evolution and reconstruction of paleogeography has become a research hot spot, however, also poses challenges to research on the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau (Wang et al., 1985; Yu et al., 1989; Wan, 1990; Wen, 1999; Li et al., 2003; Wang et al., 2005; Wan et al., 2007; Li et al., 2019; Scotese et al., 2021; Ding et al., 2022). The paleogeographic reconstruction of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau includes the following aspects: 1) processes concerning the fragmentation and drift of the Indian plate, the outline of the Indo-Tethys Himalayas, and the challenges of Greater India; 2) collision of the Lhasa and Qiangtang blocks and the sea–land pattern of the southern margin of the Asian continent; 3) evolution and collision of microplates in the Tethys Ocean.

Biopaleogeography, sedimentary geochemistry, and paleomagnetism play crucial roles in the reconstruction of the Cretaceous paleogeography of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau. In particular, paleomagnetism, which is favored for providing quantitative plate drift data, has led to a series of novel developments (Bian et al., 2018; Yuan et al., 2021; Jadoon et al., 2023; Meng et al., 2023). Accordingly, the roles of sedimentology and geochemistry in the paleogeography of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau have received increasing attention (Hu et al., 2010, 2016; Wang et al., 2021; Xu et al., 2022). Biopalaeogeography is crucial to paleogeography restoration and reconstruction (Wang et al., 1985). Meanwhile, few studies have been conducted on the reconstruction of Cretaceous paleogeography in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau (Wen, 1999; Yin, 1999; Li J G et al., 2019; Rao et al., 2019; Li et al., 2023). For instance, Li J G et al. (2019) recently explored the drift history of the Indian Plate during the Cretaceous and its connection with the block continents through an assemblage of paleontological fossils, providing a sound example for the application of biopaleogeography. In this study, we focus on the distribution of biota and biopaleogeography in the East Neotethys Ocean, combine paleomagnetic and sedimentary geochemical evidence to restore the paleogeographic pattern in different periods of the Cretaceous, and explore certain key paleogeographic issues (Fig. 14).

5.1 Biota distribution characteristics

The Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas have large paleogeographic distribution ranges, stretching from the northern margin of Australia-Antarctica to the southern margin of Asia, across the high latitudes of the Southern Hemisphere to the middle latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere. This vast area encompasses diverse environments, including different types of deep sea, shallow sea, and land, providing favorable conditions for unique biological groups to flourish. The Cretaceous biota in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas is rich and varied, including foraminifera, radiolarians, ostracods, ammonites, bivalves, gastropods, brachiopods, echinoderms, and dinosaurs. Additionally, the biota comprises calcareous nannofossils, dinoflagellates, and plant fossils, such as spores and pollen. While the fossils representing the major classes have been extensively described in biostratigraphy, this study describes them from the perspective of biota or biocommunities according to their biogeographical divisions. These divisions are further broken down into the continental biota of the southern margin of the Asian continent (further divided into three subgroups), the hemipelagic–pelagic phytoplankton, the Burmese terrane island community (represented by the Kachin amber biota), the shallow sea biota of the southern margin of the Tethys, the Indian Deccan transition biota, and the southern margin of Gondwanaland (Figure 15). The distribution of these biota is primarily affected by the paleogeographic distribution, providing a scientific basis for the restoration of paleogeography.

5.1.1 Terrestrial biomes of the southern margin of the Asian continent

The non-marine Cretaceous strata along the southern margin of the Asian continent were dominated by red clastic beds, which were recorded in the Kuqa, Qaidam, Qiangtang, Hoh Xil, Chamdo, Simao, and Khorat basins. These basins harbor fossils with lower diversity and abundance, including fluvial-lacustrine species such as ostracods, charophyte, gastropods, bivalves, and clam shrimp, as well as terrestrial vertebrates, such as dinosaurs. The plant groups, dominated primarily by gymnosperms, thrived throughout the Cretaceous (Chen, 2003). Furthermore, the biological community is characterized by the typical biological features of the mid- and low latitudes in Asia. Regarding the rare benthic foraminifera species detected in the Sichuan Basin and  trace amounts of 24-n-propyl- and 24-iso-propylcholestanes in the Simao Basin, it has been suggested that sporadic transgressions occurred in the area, leading to invasion of a small number of marine organisms (Li et al., 1979; Wang et al., 2021).

5.1.2 Shallow-sea biome of the northern margin of East Tethys

Regarding the spatial and temporal distribution, the shallow-sea biomes along the northern margin of the East Tethys were subdivided into the transition phase biota, coastal shallow-sea biota, and carbonate platform biota.

5.1.2.1 Marine-terrestrial transitional biota

The early Cretaceous species in the Lhasa Block were predominantly distributed within the transitional zone, with relatively low diversity and abundant bivalves (Wen et al., 2000a) and plant fossils, primarily Filicopsida, Lycosida, and Coniferales (Wu, 1985; Yang & Li, 2016). The community in the southern margin of Lhasa block primarily inhabited the coastline and included coastal and near-shore swamp–river environments ranging from the early Berrasian–Aptian period.

5.1.2.2 Carbonate platform biome

The late Early Cretaceous carbonate rocks of the Lhasa Block and the Late Cretaceous carbonate rocks of the Karakoram Block were predominated by large benthic foraminifera (represented by Orbitolinids), rudists, gastropods, corals, and other marine fossils. The abundance of Orbitolinides and rudists in this biota reflects the carbonate platform of the warm shallow seas, ranging from the late Aptian to the early Maastrichtian periods.

5.1.2.3 Shallow sea biome of the bay

Shallow facies predominated the Late Cretaceous strata in the western Tarim and Tajikistan Basins, characterized by flourishing benthic organisms and planktic organisms, such as dinoflagellates, calcareous nannofossils, ammonoids, and planktic foraminifera. This community primarily inhabited the shallow sea of the bay environment in the northwest margin of East Tethys, characterized by a warm and relatively arid climate, ranging from Cenomanian to Maastrichtian.

5.1.3 Hemipelagic–pelagic plankton blooms

Radiolaria and pelagic planktic foraminifera predominated the Indus–Yarlung Zangbo River sutures and the northern Tethys Himalayan zone, characterized by radiolaria–planktic foraminifera blooms (Li et al., 2022, 2023; Wang et al., 2022). This community primarily inhabited pelagic and hemipelagic environments, with radiolaria distributed predominantly in the Conomanian–Turonian age (Li et al., 2023) and planktic foraminifera distributed in the Aptian–Maastrichtian age (Wan et al., 2007; Guobiao et al., 2020).

5.1.4 Kachin amber biota in the West Burma block

Kachin amber in Myanmar preserved a rich amber biota from the Albian to Cenomanian periods (Shi et al., 2012; Ross, 2019; Sokol, 2019; Yu et al., 2019), comprising plants, vertebrates, gastropods, and insects The fauna found in the amber includes ferns, amphibians, reptiles, non-avian dinosaurs, other vertebrate inclusions, marine and terrestrial gastropods, ammonites, ostracods, Odonata, Plecoptera, cockroaches, Mimarachnidae, Sinoalidae, and Peloridiidae (Shiet al., 2012; Cai et al., 2018; Jiang et al., 2018, 2019, 2020; Xing et al., 2018; Ross, 2019; Sokol, 2019; Yu et al., 2019; Wang B, 2020). The diversity of amber fauna in Myanmar is remarkable, with symbiotic marine and terrestrial organisms and certain biological morphological characteristics that distinctly reflect warm and humid environments. It is, therefore, proposed that this fauna was located on an island or island chain near the equator of the Tethys Ocean and in a near-shore forest environment where the sea and land interacted (Jiang et al., 2018).

5.1.5 Shallow-sea biome of the southern margin of East Tethys

This biota is primarily produced in the Tethys Himalayan region, represented by Gamba–Tingri and Zanda, with highly abundant and diverse marine organisms. These organisms include foraminifera, ostracods, radiolarians, bivalves, ammonites, gastropods, brachiopods, echinoderms, calcareous nannofossils, vertebrate fragments (primarily teeth), and other fossils. They reflect tropical semi-deep shallow marine ecosystems (Wan et al., 2007; Rao et al., 2019a; Li G B et al., 2020), characterized by an abundance of calcareous nannofossils, planktic foraminifera, bivalves, and ammonites, throughout the entire Cretaceous. Cold-water marine organisms predominated the community in the middle and high latitudes of the Southern Hemisphere during the early Cretaceous, whereas warm-water marine communities predominated the low latitudes of the equator and the Northern Hemisphere during the late Cretaceous.

5.1.6 Terrestrial biome of the Indian Plate

This community was primarily derived from the late Early Cretaceous–Late Cretaceous continental strata of the Indian Plate. In the late Early Cretaceous–Early and middle Late Cretaceous, the Indian Plate was dominated by marine strata with certain non-marine strata, which yielded fluvial–Lacustrine invertebrate and vertebrate fossils, such as ostracods, bivalves, and dinosaurs (Smith, 2010; Shitole et al., 2021). During the Maastrichtian age, the Deccan region of India was rich in typical terrestrial biota, such as ostracods, gastropods, charotes, plants, fish, and mammals, as well as certain transitional marine biota, such as foraminifera (Kapur et al., 2019; Khosla et al., 2021, 2023). In addition to the Deccan area, the Maastrichtian strata in the Cauvery Basin yielded Maastrichtian non-marine vertebrate fossils, including those of dinosaurs and fish, while the other period of Cretaceous was dominated by marine fossils. The Early Cretaceous Albian Stage also yielded a small number of plant fossils and fragments of terrestrial vertebrate fossils (Verma, 2021). The Indian Plate terrestrial biomes are subdivided into two phases, approximately 125–70 Ma and 70–65 Ma, and the non-marine biomes belong to the Gondwanan biomes before ~125 Ma. The rich nutrients provided by the Deccan basalt eruption and the warm and dry conditions in the low latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere led to an increase in community diversity during the Maastrichtian.

5.1.7 Terrestrial biome from Gondwana

This biome was primarily derived from the non-marine strata of Gondwana (including Australia and Antarctica) during the early Cretaceous and characterized by the flourishing of dinosaurs, ferns, including plants, palynomorph, dinoflagellates, and dinosaurs (Duncan et al., 2021; Peyrot et al., 2023). Furthermore, it was primarily distributed in the high-latitude Gondwanan continent, representing a relatively cool climate of Gondwana-type organisms ranging from the Barresmian–Baremian.

5.2 Cretaceous biopaleogeography of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

5.2.1 early Early Cretaceous (Barresian–Valanginian)

In the early Early Cretaceous (Berriasian–Barremian), bivalve fauna was primarily composed of Trigonioides, distributed on a narrow strip of at least 2000 km in length, starting from the Khorat Plateau in Thailand in the south and reaching the Tanggula Mountains in the north (Sha et al., 2007; Chen, 2009). This bivalve fauna is located on the southern margin of the Asian continent and the eastern edge of the Eastern Tethys Ocean. They may also exist in fluvial and lacustrine environments at coastal continental margins (Yin et al., 1990). In the Lhasa block, in addition to freshwater fossils, such as Trigonioides, represented by the Peregrinoconcha yunnanensis–Sinonaia perlonga assemblage, a few ammonite fossils, echinoderms and marine ostracods have also been reported (He and Xia, 1984; Zhu and Pan, 1988). This appears to indicate the presence of marine and marine–continental transitional strata in addition to the terrestrial strata in this region. Ammonites from the early Early Cretaceous can also be found in Sumatra, Southeast Asia, and the Bau area of Sarawak in eastern Malaysia (He and Xia, 1984). Their appearance is similar to that of the Lhasa block, indicating that they belong to the northern margin of the Neo-tethys and the same biogeographic region (He and Xia, 1984).

The vegetation of the Lhasa block is dominated by ferns and cycads, followed by conifers and other species. Ferns have smaller feathers, thicker leaves, and simpler leaf veins (Wu, 1985; Deng, 2012). The spore and pollen fossils are dominated by classopollis (Yang et al., 2009), indicating a tropical to subtropical dry climate. In contrast, the flora of the Indian Plate is dominated by cycads and ferns, as well as conifers and ginkgoaks, the appearance of which differs entirely from that of Lhasa block (Wu, 1985; Deng, 2012). This indicates that India and Lhasa Block were divided on the northern and southern sides by the vast Neo-tethys Sea, with differences in the geography and climate between the two regions.

During the Late Jurassic to Early Cretaceous, although the Southwest Indian Ocean (between the Indian and African plates) initially opened and developed rift basins (Whittaker et al., 2013), the Indian and Australian–Antarctic plates had not yet separated. The Indian Plate was still part of the Gondwanan continent. For the Berriasian to Valanginian period, the Gondwana cold-water bivalve R. everesti was in the Tethyan Himalayan region, as well as Australia, New Zealand, Antarctica, and South America, all of which are located in the high-latitude oceans of the Southern Hemisphere and share the same biogeographic region. These plates may have only narrow sea lanes between them, as they have not yet formed vast oceans. The Perth Basin in Australia is considered a key area for studying the fragmentation of the New India/Australian Plate. During the Early Cretaceous (Barresian Hautrvariant), the fossil assemblage of dinoflagellates in the region transitioned from freshwater to seawater (Peyrot et al., 2023). Additionally, the pollen morphology was typical of the high latitude in the Southern Hemisphere (Peyrot et al., 2023) and generally consistent with the morphologies of India and the Himalayas (Li et al., 2016). This reflects the similarities in geographical plant regions (Li J G et al., 2019).

Radiolarians play a crucial role in the study of oceanic basins. Recently, Li et al. (2023) conducted a systematic biopaleogeographic analysis of radiolarians in samples from the northern margin sea area of the Indian continent represented by three points in southern Xizang (Gyantse, Kangma, and Zhongba), the West Tethys warm waters represented by Italy (Gorgo a Cerbara profile), and the southern hemisphere middle–high-latitude cold water regions represented by the Argo deep-sea basin (site765). They discovered that the Early Cretaceous radiolarian fossils of the southern hemisphere middle–high latitudes in the Argo Deep Sea Basin and parts of southern Tibet were formed during the disintegration of the East Gondwanan continent around 136 Ma due to the rupture of the Indian continent from the East Gondwanan continent and the northward influx of cold water from the Antarctic region.

5.2.2 late Early Cretaceous (Aptian–Albian)

In the late Early Cretaceous, no significant changes occurred in the biogeographic features of the southern margin of the Asian continent compared to that in the early Early Cretaceous. On the southern margin of the entire Asian continent, from Southeast Asia to western Yunnan, the Sichuan Basin, Kuqa Basin, and Tethyan fauna, represented by Trigonioides and Cypridea, existed. However, in the Lhasa block, although terrestrial Trigonioides assemblages remained in certain areas, the overall biota dominated by terrestrial and marine–terrestrial facies changed to a rudist–orbitolinid fossil assemblage dominated by shallow marine facies (Rao et al., 2017; Wan, 2020). This indicates that the region experienced a large-scale sea invasion during that time. Although terrestrial organisms were still dominant in the Tarim Basin and Central Asia during this period, a small number of marine biological assemblages began to appear (Xi et al., 2020).

With the northward drift of the Indian Plate and the gradual opening of the Indian Ocean, cold water from the Antarctic region entered the region. Consequently, cold-water radiolarian fauna was widely developed on the southern edge of the Indian Plate and the northern edge of the Australian Plate, whereas warm-water radiolarian fauna began to develop in the Tethyan Himalayan region on the northern edge of the Indian Plate (Li et al., 2023). The Late Early Cretaceous bivalve fossil Aucellina from the Tethyan Himalayas was widely distributed in high-latitude cold-water regions from the Aptian to Turonian periods, including Europe, the Caucasus, Australia, and Antarctica. In addition to the Tethys Himalayan terrane, A. hughenensis has been found in the Albian stage of Australia, while Syncyclonema is distributed in the Aptian to Maastrichtian stages of the Himalayas, Europe, North America, and Australia. S. Territorianum has been reported in Australia. This indicates that the Tethyan Himalayas remain in a high-latitude cold-water region and exhibit a biogeographic affinity with Australia. During this period, the foraminiferal fauna in the Tethyan Himalayan region was primarily composed of shallow marine cold-water molecules, indicating a good affinity with the Australian plate. Although the extensive Indian Ocean had already formed during this period, dinosaur fossils distributed in regions such as India, Australia, South America, and Africa share similarities, indicating a good phylogenetic relationship between the different plates (Poropat et al., 2016).

5.2.3 early Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian–Coniacian)

During the early Late Cretaceous, significant changes occurred in the biogeographic features of the southern margin of the Lhasa block. The shallow marine biota, represented by rudist–orbitolinid, widely developed in the Lhasa block and disappeared in the late Cenomanian period. Instead, the fluvial–lacustrine biota, represented by terrestrial gastropods and bivalves, are widely distributed in the Sichuan Basin, Western Yunnan, and Southeast Asia. In the Karakoram block, Tajik, and western Tarim basins, fauna represented by shallow marine bivalves and benthic foraminifera have begun to develop widely (Sha et al., 2020; Xi et al., 2016; Rao et al., 2023). During this period, the western Burma block was still at the equator, with the development of terrestrial animals, plants, and coastal organisms. Many fossils were preserved in amber form, forming the famous Burmese Kachin amber. This reflects a humid, nearshore tropical island environment (Jiang et al., 2018).

The Indian Plate and Tethyan Himalayan region became dominated by warm-water fauna from the early Late Cretaceous, including bivalves, foraminifera, ammonites, radiolarians, and ostracods. These fauna were widely distributed in the Tethys region and began to show significant differences from Australian biota. The spore pollen fossil assemblages during this period clearly distinguish Australia from Antarctica. Several topical molecules have begun to emerge (Li et al., 2019). The bivalves do not include Gondwana cold-water bivalves, and the appearance of P. (P.) vesiculosa indicates that the Tethyan Himalayan zone exited the high-latitude cold-water region of the southern hemisphere, drifting northward to the temperate region since the late Cenomanian period. However, this assemblage did not produce rudists, indicating that the Himalayan belt remained at approximately 30°S during this period (Rao et al., 2019). The paleomagnetic results indicated that the Tethyan Himalaya was located at approximately 29°S during 117.7–94.4 Ma (Bian et al., 2022, 2023).

5.2.4 late Late Cretaceous (Campanian–Maastrichtian)

In the late Late Cretaceous, the biological features of the southern margin of the Asian continent generally inherited characteristics of the early Late Cretaceous. In the Campanian and early Maastrichtian periods, a set of carbonate-dominated strata rich in rudists was widely developed in the western Karakoram–Tarim Basin, indicating that the water was warm and humid (Wen, 1999; Xi et al., 2016; Rao et al., 2020).

The Indian Plate and Tethyan Himalayan zone were dominated by warm-water fauna in the late Late Cretaceous, which is generally consistent with the appearance of the early Late Cretaceous. Rudists are typical warm bivalve species; hence, their abundance in the upper section of the Zongshan Formation indicates that the Tethyan Himalayan zone drifted northward to the near-equatorial region north of 30°S (Wen, 1997; Wen, 1999; Rao et al., 2019). This indicates that, at least from the late Campanian period, the eastern part of the Tethys Ocean closed due to the northward drift of the Indian Plate. Its northern and southern edges were relatively close, and benthic sessile bivalves with similar appearances could engage in species exchange (Rao et al., 2019).

5.3 Cretaceous paleogeographic evolution of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

By combining biogeography with paleomagnetism and sedimentology evidence, the paleogeography of different stages was restored (Fig. 16, Fig. 17). The following section focuses on four topics: (1) the fragmentation and drift of the Indian Plate; (2) the paleogeographic evolution of the northern margin of the Eastern Neotethys and the southern margin of the Asian continent; (3) micro–block evolution; (4) the subduction of the New Tethys Ocean and initial collision of the Indian/Eurasian Plates.

5.3.1 Fragmentation from Gondwana and northward drift of the Indian Plate

During the Late Jurassic to Early Cretaceous (160–140 Ma), although the southwestern Indian Ocean opened due to the cracking of the western edge of the Indian Plate and the African continent (Stagg et al., 2004), the Indian Plate and Australia Antarctica had not yet broken apart. During this period, the appearance of vertebrates, plants, and invertebrates on the Indian Plate was relatively consistent with that on the Australia–Antarctic continent.

The Valanginian period is considered critical to the fragmentation of the Indian and Australian Plates; the Comei–Bunbury large igneous province (LIP) may be a key record of this process (Frey et al., 1996; Coffin et al., 2002; Zhu et al., 2009). The Comei Bunbury LIP is located between the Australian Plate and Indian continent, representing a rift basin related to the early activity of the Kerguelen mantle plume. In the Perth Basin of Australia, marine fossils of dinoflagellates appeared near the Valanginian–Hauterivian boundary (Peyrot et al., 2023), indicating that, during this period, seawater had already entered the basin along with fragmentation and the passage of the East and West Indian Oceans. The recent discovery of a cold-water radiolarian fauna in Jiangzi at 145 Ma suggests that as early as ~145 Ma, cold-water masses from high latitudes had entered the Gyangze region through the narrow sea lanes of the Indian and Australian–Antarctic Plates (Li et al., 2023).

Paleomagnetism provides new constraints on the opening and relative position of the Indian and Australian–Antarctic Plates. The relative position between Australia and the eastern Antarctic continent remained stable between 140–120 Ma (Torsvik et al., 2012). The paleomagnetic results of the early Early Cretaceous volcanic rocks in the Luozha region of the eastern Tethyan Himalayas (belonging to the Comei Bunbury LIP indicate that the eastern Tethyan Himalaya was located at 48.5–55.5°S from 138 to 135 Ma (Bian et al., 2019). Although the Indian Ocean formed earlier than 135 Ma, it did not expand rapidly until 124 Ma (Bian et al., 2019).

The Indian–Tethyan Himalayan Plate began to drift slowly northward during the late Early Cretaceous (121~100 Ma). During this period, the scale of the Indian Ocean was small, whereas the Neo-Tethys Ocean was enormous (Zhu et al., 2021). Moreover, the benthic foraminifera and bivalves in the Tethyan Himalayan region were still dominated by cold-water-type fossils, indicating that the northern edge of the Indian continent was still at high latitudes in the Southern Hemisphere. This is consistent with paleomagnetic results. The Tethyan Himalayan zone has shallow marine shelf environments on the southern side and oceanic semi-oceanic environments on the northern side. This zone, represented by Gamba, Tingri, and Zanda on the southern side, is primarily a continental shelf environment with abundant planktonic foraminifera and ammonite fossils (Wang et al., 2005). In contrast, the northern Tethyan Himalayan zone is dominated by slope–basin facies, representing deep-water deposition with abundant radiolarian fossils (Wang et al., 2020; Li et al., 2023).

During the Late Cretaceous, the Indian Plate drifted rapidly northward and collided with the southern edge of the Eurasian Plate at the end of the Cretaceous. During this period, the Tethyan Himalayan zone remained a shallow marine environment dominated by continental shelves in the south and basin–slope deposition dominated by slopes and basins in the north. The bivalves, ammonites, foraminifera, and radiolarians in the Tethyan Himalayan zone were primarily of the warm-water type, with a predominance of rudists, indicating that the northern edge of the Indian continent was located near the equator during this period.

At the end of the Late Cretaceous, the Indian Ocean drifted further northward, and the distance between the front and southern edges of the Asian continent was further reduced. However, the biogeographic and sedimentological characteristics of the Tethyan Himalayan region during this period retained significant differences from those of the southern edge of the Asian continent (Hu et al., 2016), indicating that the Indian/Eurasian Plates had not yet collided. The eruption of the Deccan basalt and sea-level decline in the late Cretaceous significantly impacted the paleogeographic pattern of the Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas. Due to regression, the strata at the end of the Late Cretaceous were generally absent or dominated by coarse clastic deposits in the Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas (Wan et al., 2002, 2007; Wang et al., 2005; Hu et al., 2016).

Two notable geological events occurred during the northward drift of the Indian Plate. The first is the separation of Madagascar from the Indian continent, while the second is the Greater India model and the collision of the Indian/Eurasian Plates. With the development of the Marion hotspot (~90 Ma ago), the Madagascar microcontinent began to separate from the Greater Indian Plate (~87 Ma ago) (Storey et al., 1995; Keller et al., 2008). Subsequently, during the late Late Cretaceous, the terrestrial biota of Madagascar differed significantly from that of the Indian continent, indicating the emergence of distinct biogeographic divisions. According to the traditional Indian Plate model, the northern margin of the Indian Plate remained near the equator at the end of the Cretaceous (66 Ma). Even at 55–50 Ma, a significant distance remained between the Indian and the Eurasian plates. However, by at least 50–55 Ma, the Indian Plate had collided with the southern margin of the Asian continent. Accordingly, Ali and Aitchison (2005) proposed the Greater India model, which purports that an enormous disappearing plate front exists due to the subduction between India and the southern margin of the Asian continent. This hypothesis has sparked an intense debate with increasing evidence suggesting that at least by ~60 Ma, the Indian and Eurasian Plates began to collide (Ding et al., 2005, 2017, 2022; Hu et al., 2016, 2017; Meng et al., 2023). Meanwhile, based on the sedimentology, biogeography, and volcanic eruption events, it has been proposed that the two collided between 70–66 Ma (Yin and Harrison, 2000; Wan et al., 2002; Mo et al., 2007). Considering the evidence from paleomagnetism, biogeography, and sedimentology, this study suggests the existence of a wide Tethyan Himalayan zone at the northern margin of the Indian Plate, which formed the Greater Indian Plate, and the collision between the Greater Indian Plate and Eurasian Plate may occurr at the forefront of the Greater Indian Plate before 66 Ma.

5.3.2 Paleogeographic evolution of the southern margin of the Asian continent

5.3.2.1 Paleogeographic Evolution of the Lhasa block and the disappearance of the Bangong–Nujiang Ocean

At the southern margin of the Eurasian continent, the Lhasa block has attracted substantial attention as it relates to the extinction of the Paleo-Tethys Ocean and the northward subduction of the Neo-Tethys Ocean. The paleomagnetic results indicate that the paleolatitude of the Lhasa block has remained generally unchanged since the Late Jurassic (Yang et al., 2015; Bian et al., 2017, 2023). This suggests that the Lhasa block collided with the southern margin of the Asian continent during the Early Cretaceous. However, a residual sea of the Bangong–Nujiang Ocean remains on the northern margin of the Lhasa Block (Hu et al., 2022), temporarily referred to as the Lhasa Sea in this study. Since the mid Early Cretaceous, with the northward subduction of the Tethys Ocean and global sea-level rise, large-scale seawater intruded the Lhasa block, forming an epeiric sea environment. During the Late Cretaceous, the Bangong–Nujiang suture zone and its periphery entered an orogenic uplift stage. During middle Cretaceous, seawater in the Lhasa block eventually retreated during the late Cenomanian (approximately 95 Ma), and the Lhasa block began to uplift (Ye et al., 2019; Sun et al., 2022). However, the eastern part of the Lhasa block may have already begun to uplift during the mid Early Cretaceous (Wang et al., 2017b).

5.3.2.2 Evolution of the Tarim–Tajikistan–Karakoram Sea

In the late Early Cretaceous and early Late Cretaceous, although the Lhasa Sea disappeared, the western Tarim Basin, Tajik Basin, and Karakoram area subsided based on the marine deposits in the continental strata of the Early Cretaceous. The marine deposits in this area of the Late Cretaceous were characterized by the development of benthic bivalves (including rudists) and benthic foraminifera, with only a small amount of planktonic foraminifera and ammonite fossils. The rudist fossils show good phylogenetic relationships (Xi et al., 2016; Rao et al., 2023). This indicates the possible existence of an east–west distributed ocean, referred to as the Tarim–Tajikistan–Karakoram Sea, in this study. At the end of the Late Cretaceous, with the beginning of global regression and the initial collision of the Indian/Eurasian Plates, seawater retreated from the region once more.

5.3.3 Evolution of the West Burma Block and the Kohistan–Ladakh Arc

The western region of what is now Myanmar contains famous amber fossils from the mid Cretaceous, indicating a humid climate and high biodiversity during the mid Cretaceous (Jiang et al., 2018; Poinar, 2018). Recently, based on paleomagnetism in this region, it has been proposed that the western Myanmar terrane may be an island near the equator of the Neo-Tethys Ocean (Westerweel et al., 2019; Morley et al., 2022). The climate in Southeast Asia was hot, and terrestrial red beds predominated during Cretaceous. Even in the Lhasa–Qiangtang blocks, near the northern coast of the Tethys Ocean, red sediment was the primary sediment, and tropical rainforest sediment was lacking. Its biogeography and the distribution of the Cretaceous climate zone further support it as an island located near the equator (Jiang et al., 2018) rather than a coastal zone in the southern region of Southeast Asia. Before and after the Cretaceous/Paleogene boundary, the West Burma block collided with the Indian/Eurasian plate and became part of the southern margin of the Asian continent (Westerweel et al., 2019; Yuan et al., 2022).

The Kohistan–Ladakh Arc (KLA) is located between the Indian Plate and Karakoram block. It begins from the Waziristan ophiolite belt in the west, extends to the northeast through the Kohistan island arc, turns southeast, and connects with the Yarlung Zangbo River suture zone in Xizang after passing through the Ladak granite zone (Lu et al., 2017). The KLA was an independent micro-block during the Cretaceous, located in the Tethys Ocean between the Indian Plate and Asian continent (Gaetani, 1997; Ding et al., 2016; Qasim et al., 2018; Jadoonet al., 2020). Although several paleogeographic models have placed it near the equator, the rudist–orbitolinid biota of this block in the late Early Cretaceous (Aptian–Albian) exhibits a strong similarity and affinity with the Lhasa Block (Rao et al., 2015, 2017; Baman et al., 2023; Prasenjit et al., 2023). The detrital zircon age indicates a close relationship with the southern margin of the Asian continent, suggesting that their ancient geographical location is closer to that of Lhasa–Karakoram(Ding et al., 2016. The KLA subducted northward at approximately the end of the Cretaceous and joined with the southern Asian continent (Ding et al., 2016; Qasim et al., 2018).

5.4 Summary of the Cretaceous paleogeographic evolution of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

Based on the comprehensive evolution of the biogeography for the Indian Plate, the southern region of the Asian continent, and other blocks, this study divides the Cretaceous paleogeographic evolution of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas into three stages: (1) the gradual fragmentation of the Indian Plate and Australia–Antarctica and the early collision stage of the Lhasa–Qiangtang blocks (145–125 Ma); (2) the gradual northward drift of the Indian Plate and the late collision stage of the Lhasa–Qiangtang blocks (125–100 Ma); and (3) the rapid northward drift of the Indian Plate, formation of the Tarim–Tajikistan–Karakoram Bay, northward subduction stage of the Neo-Tethys Ocean, and early uplift stage of the Gangdise Mountains (100–66 Ma).

6 Responses to major Cretaceous geological events in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

A series of major geological events occurred during the Cretaceous period (Sketon et al., 2003; Wang  and Hu, 2005; Jenkyns, 2010; Haq, 2014; Gale et al., 2020; Petrizzo et al., 2020; Steinig et al., 2020). The Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas not only bear witness to global Cretaceous geological events, such as oceanic anoxic events (OAEs), oceanic oxygenation events, LIPs, biotic extinctions, and radiations, but also document a series of unique geological events related to the evolution, rifting, drifting, and collision of the Neo-Tethyan Ocean and Indian Plate (including microplates and blocks) (Fig. 18) (Wan and Yin, 1996; Wan et al., 2003a, 2003b, 2003; Zhao and Wan, 2003; Li G B et al., 2005, 2007, 2009a, 2009b, 2012, 2020; Wang et al., 2005a, 2005b; ; Zhu et al., 2009, 2016, 2023; Hu et al., 2012; Hu, 2015; Zhu et al., 2021; Yuan et al., 2022). The major Cretaceous geological events in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau profoundly impacted climate and environmental changes at the regional and global scales (Wang et al., 2005; Ding et al., 2022), resulting in the formation of abundant mineral and hydrocarbon resources (Zhao et al., 2001; Hou et al., 2015).

6.1 Major Cretaceous geological events

6.1.1 Cretaceous oceanic anoxic and oxygenation events

OAEs refer to periods when the bottom waters of oceans experience recurring hypoxia to anoxia, leading to the widespread distribution of organic-rich black shales in various ocean basins (Jenkyns, 2010). Global Cretaceous OAEs include OAE-Weissert, OAE1 (subdivided into a, b, c, and d phases), and OAE2 (Wang and Hu, 2005; Jenkyns, 2010; Hu et al., 2012). The OAE occurred in the Neo-Tethyan Ocean during the Cretaceous, with OAE-Weissert, OAE1a, OAE1b, OAE1c, OAE1d, and OAE2 identified in the southern Tibetan region (Wan et al., 2003b; Li et al., 2006, 2016; Zhang et al., 2016; Chen et al., 2017; Li YX et al., 2017; Yao et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2024). It has also been suggested that OAE events have been recorded in the Tarim and Upper Indus Basins (Guo and Yao., 1995; Xi et al., 2020). OAE2, as the most prominent Cretaceous oceanic anoxic event, marked by a suite of black shales at the top of the Lengqinghe Formation,  characterized by negative carbon isotopic values and a duration of 870 kyr (Li et al., 2006; Li Y X et al., 2017). During OAE2, profound anoxia in bottom waters led to the extinction and radiation of several organisms, including foraminifera, radiolarians, dinoflagellates, and calcareous nannoplankton (Wan and Yin, 1996; Wan et al., 2003b; Zhao and Wan, 2003; Jia et al., 2013; Li et al., 2020), as well as volcanic eruptions and enhanced continental weathering (Chen et al., 2021, 2022; Li Y X et al., 2022).

Cretaceous Oceanic Red Beds (CORB), deposited under oxygen-rich conditions in deep-sea and semi-deep-sea environments, are characterized by red–pink–brown hues and low organic content, representing products of oxygen-rich events (Hu et al., 2005; Wang et al., 2005b; Wang et al., 2005). CORBs are globally distributed yet primarily concentrated in the Neo-Tethys, with extensive occurrences in regions such as the Tethyan Himalaya zone (Hu et al., 2012). The global distribution timeframe of the CORB extends from the Albian to the Maastrichtian, whereas in south Tibet, it has been identified from the Late Santonian to the Maastrichtian, potentially extending to the early Paleocene (Hu et al., 2005, 2012; Wan et al., 2005). CORBs are deep-sea deposits formed following oceanic anoxic events and are closely related to fall of temperature and global iron cycling (Hu et al., 2012).

6.1.2 Large-scale volcanic eruption events

Frequent volcanic eruption events occurred during the Cretaceous, forming three oceanic large igneous provinces globally: the Kerguelen, Ontong Java, and Caribbean LIPs (Skelton et al., 2003; Keller et al., 2018). In the eastern Tethyan tectonic domain, multiple large-scale volcanic eruptions or volcanic events have been associated with plate fragmentation–collision events. Notable volcanic events include the Comei–Bunbury LIP, extensive volcanic eruptions in the Lhasa block, the Madagascar LIP, and the Deccan Traps (Sheth et al., 2005; Keller et al., 2008; Zhu et al., 2009, 2016, 2023; Chen et al., 2018).

The Comei–Bunbury LIP, proposed by Zhu et al. (2009), incorporates large-scale Cretaceous igneous rocks in the Comei region of southeastern Tibet and the Bunbury basalt in Australia, termed the Comei–Bunbury LIP. The magmatic activity of the Comei–Bunbury LIP primarily occurred between 130 and 137 Ma, with peak activity around 132 Ma (Zhu et al., 2009). Liang et al. (2023) summarized the early Cretaceous volcanic rock ages in the Tethys Himalayas and proposed two peak activity times (~141 Ma and 133 Ma). The Comei–Bunbury LIP likely recorded the early magmatic activity of the Kerguelen mantle plume around 132 Ma, contributing to the rift processes of the East Gondwanan continent. Additionally, volcanic rocks found in the Gyangze area in the central Tethyan Himalaya zone and Kangma in the eastern Tethyan Himalaya zone, which have been dated by zircon U-Pb dating as 118–115 Ma, may also be products of Kerguelen mantle plume activity; they are temporarily referred to as the Tethyan Himalayan volcanic eruption event in this study. The Lhasa block experienced large-scale volcanic eruption events during the mid to late Early Cretaceous (120–110 Ma), possibly associated with the collision of the Lhasa–Qiangtang blocks and the closure of the Bangong Lake–Nujiang Ocean (Zhu et al., 2011, 2016). During the Late Cretaceous (90–75 Ma), the southern part of the Lhasa block (Gangdese zone) underwent large-scale volcanic eruption events (Zhu et al., 2023).

In addition to the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau, the Madagascar LIP and the Deccan Traps in the surrounding areas of the plateau are closely related to the Indian Plate drift and Neo-Tethyan Ocean evolution. The Madagascar LIP occurred around 90–86 Ma, separating the Madagascar Block from the Indian Plate (Storey et al., 1995; Keller et al., 2008). The Deccan Traps represent one of the largest LIPs worldwide, with an erupted volume exceeding 1.1 million km2 (Sheth et al., 2005). Schoene et al. (2019), using zircon U-Pb dating, identified four major eruption periods: (1) 66.3–66.15 Ma, (2) 66.1–66.0 Ma, (3) 65.9–65.8 Ma, and (4) 65.6–65.5 Ma. The formation of the Deccan Traps is generally believed to be associated with the northward movement of the Indian subcontinent over the Réunion mantle plume around 66 Ma. A relationship has been proposed between the formation of the Deccan Traps and the separation of Seychelles from India (Mahoney et al., 2002; Sheth et al., 2005).

6.1.3 Plate rifting, drifting, and collision events

The Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas experienced four profound plate rifting and collision events during the Cretaceous: (1) the rifting of India from Australia–Antarctica, (2) the rifting of the Madagascar block from the Indian Plate, (3) the final assembly of the Lhasa and Qiangtang blocks, and (4) the initiation of the major collision between the Indian plate and the Asian continent. In the Late Jurassic, the rifting of India from the Australian–Antarctic continent had commenced, accompanied by the Early Cretaceous Comei–Bunbury LIP triggered by the Kerguelen mantle plume (140–132 Ma). This ultimately resulted in the separation of the Indian Plate from the Australian–Antarctic continent. In the Early Cretaceous (90–86 Ma), the Madagascar microplate separated from the Indian Plate (Storey et al., 1995). The central and northern parts of the Lhasa block experienced continuous collisions during the Early Cretaceous, culminating around 95 Ma, leading to the final assembly, disappearance of the Bangong Lake–Nujiang Ocean, and uplift of the Gangdese Mountains (Zhu et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2021; Ding et al., 2022). Although the collision between the Indian and Eurasian Plates was primarily associated during the Paleogene to Eocene by most people, it may have been initiated around the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (Wan et al., 2002; Ding et al., 2005; Mo et al., 2007).

6.1.4 Tethys Sea transgressions and regressions

The Cretaceous was characterized by a period of high global sea levels, with a significant transgression occurring in the mid-Cretaceous and regressions in the early Early Cretaceous and at the end of the Cretaceous (Haq, 2014; Xu and Hu, 2020). The Tethyan Himalayan zone is sensitive to sea level variations and records sea level change in the East Neto-Tethys area (Wan, 1992; Li et al., 2003; Wang et al., 2005; Jia et al., 2013; Hu, 2015; Li et al., 2020). In the mid-Cretaceous (Aptian–Turonian), coinciding with a global transgression, the East Neo-Tethys also experienced a large-scale transgression, resulting in the widespread deposition of black shale rich in deep-sea planktonic foraminifera and ammonites (Wan et al., 2003b; Wang et al., 2005). In the late Cenomanian to early Maastrichtian, the western Tarim Basin and other regions, including Karakoram, experienced another significant transgression, leading to seawater intrusion. From the Campanian to the early Maastrichtian, the East Neo-Tethys underwent another transgression, resulting in the deposition of a stable carbonate rock sequence (Wang et al., 2005; Xi et al., 2016). Additionally, the  East Neo-Tethys also underwent two regressions. The first primarily occurred in the Lhasa block during the Late Cenomanian, marking the transition from a marine to a terrestrial environment. The second and largest regression occurred at the end of the Cretaceous. In regions such as the Tethyan Himalayan zone, western Tarim Basin, Indus Basin, and Deccan Plateau, massive regressions have occurred at the end of the Cretaceous, shifting from normal shallow marine conditions to coastal facies (Wan et al., 2002; Hu, 2015). The Tethyan Himalayan zone was predominantly in a deep-sea environment during the early Early Cretaceous (Wang et al., 2015); hence, a response to the global sea-level decrease in the early Early Cretaceous is not evident in this region.

6.1.5 Evolution of biodiversity and biotic extinction events

The Cretaceous witnessed a period of rapid radiation in planktonic organisms, with foraminifera, calcareous nannoplankton, and radiolarians flourishing in the East Neo-Tethys, reaching the maximum diversity in the mid-Cretaceous. However, while ammonite diversity gradually decreased during the Cretaceous (Yin, 2016), bivalves were prolific (Wan, 1985; Rao et al., 2019, 2021; Li et al., 2020). Based on a preliminary analysis of different fossil categories in the marine strata of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding area, it was observed that the biodiversity of Cretaceous organisms in East Neo-Tethys increased from the Berriasian to Cenomanian, peaking in the mid-Cretaceous period, which is consistent with the global trend of biodiversity of marine invertebrates during the Cretaceous period (Alroy et al., 2008). The OAE2 event at the Cenomanian–Turonian boundary led to the extinction of the biota, followed by biotic recovery (Wan et al., 2003b; Zhao and Wan, 2003). During the Late Maastrichtian, along with a major regression in the East Neo-Tethys region, together with the Deccan Traps eruptions and a planetary impact event at the end of the Cretaceous (Pincelli et al., 2020), biodiversity declined rapidly (Wan et al., 2007; Li et al., 2020).

6.2 Coupling relationship between major geological events during the Cretaceous period in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas

A close coupling relationship existed between various events during the Cretaceous in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas. These events include the Cretaceous paleogeographic evolution, large volcanic eruptions, sea-level fluctuations, climate change, oceanic anoxia/euxinia events, and biological evolution, as well as their relationship with global Cretaceous geological events (Fig. 18). During the Cretaceous, the major oceans on earth included the Neo-Tethys, Paleo-Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans. The Paleo-Pacific Ocean was in a relatively stable phase, while the Atlantic and Indian Oceans were in the early stages of rifting. The Neo-Tethys Ocean occupied a pivotal position connecting various oceans and continents, undergoing a process of expansion followed by gradual reduction, which may have profoundly impacted global geological events.

As the Indian Plate fragmented, drifted northward, and the Neo-Tethys Ocean evolved, the Eastern Tethys region witnessed a series of significant geological events, including the early Cretaceous Comei–Bunbury LIP and the OAE–Wissert anoxic event. In the mid-Cretaceous, there was an increase in sea levels, large-scale methane emissions, OAE1 and OAE2 OAEs, biotic extinctions and recoveries at the C/T boundary, a late Cretaceous oceanic oxygenation event, and other crucial events, including the volcanic eruptions of the Deccan Traps, the Tethyan regression, and biotic extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous. During the process of the Indian Plate breaking apart and drifting, large-scale volcanic eruptions with global impacts occurred, such as in the Comei–Bunbury and Deccan LIPs. These two events had far-reaching effects on the global climate and paleoceanic environments. The former, in conjunction with the Parana–Etendeka LIP, led to the OAE–Wissert anoxic event and potentially influenced biotic radiation. The latter played a significant role in the end-Cretaceous mass extinction. The Cretaceous volcanic events in the Lhasa block and the Kohistan–Ladakh magmatic arc may have also significantly impacted global climate and paleoceanic environments, as suggested by Zhu et al. (2016, 2023). However, the specific effects require further clarification.

During the mid-Cretaceous (Aptian–Turonian), the Eastern Neo-Tethys region experienced marine transgressions and OAEs that synchronized with global events. The close relationship between the different events was influenced by several factors, including the tectonic evolution of the Eastern Neo-Tethys, global plate movements, volcanic eruptions, and greenhouse gas emissions (including large-scale methane release). These factors caused sea levels to rise, oceanic anoxia, formation of black shale, radiation and extinction of the biota. Hence, the Eastern Neo-Tethys served as a crucial location for investigating the coupled relationships of major geological events. In addition to the aforementioned significant geological events, the Cretaceous sea level, temperature, and biodiversity trends in the Eastern Neo-Tethys generally followed global sea level changes, however, they were locally influenced by regional tectonic evolution.

The warming process during the Cretaceous, high temperatures in the mid-Cretaceous, and cooling in the late Cretaceous were consistent with global temperature trends. However, temperature changes in the Tethyan Himalayan zone were further influenced by shifts in climate zones due to the drift of the Indian Plate, transitioning from high-latitude cold water in the Southern Hemisphere to equatorial warm water. In the mid-Cretaceous (Aptian–Turonian), the Tethyan Himalayan zone and Xigaze foreland basin experienced multiple submarine methane release events (Liang et al., 2016; Chang et al., 2022), which may have contributed to global warming. Biodiversity in the Cretaceous oceans of the Eastern Neo-Tethys increased continuously during the Early Cretaceous, peaking in mid-Cretaceous. However, it significantly declined during the late Cretaceous, particularly in planktonic organisms, consistent with the evolution trend of global marine invertebrate diversity (Alroy et al., 2008).

In summary, large-scale volcanic eruptions, OAE, CORB, sea-level changes, temperature fluctuations, and biodiversity changes in the Eastern Neo-Tethys were influenced by global and regional (Eastern Neo-Tethys) factors. The fragmentation and northward drift of the Indian Plate, along with subduction in the Neo-Tethys, may have been crucial driving forces for the major Cretaceous geological events in the Eastern Neo-Tethys (DeCelles et al., 2021; Ding et al., 2022).

7.2 Research prospects

In future study, the following aspects should be strengthened as follows.

(1) The Cretaceous strata in the Indus–Yarlung Zangbo River suture zone, the northern Tethys Himalaya zone, and the Karakoram remain unstudied, particularly in the Indus–Yarlung Zangbo River suture zone, where the stratigraphic sequences are highly complex, making it difficult to establish a traditional lithostratigraphic sequence. Thus, the new methodologies detailed in this study, including ocean plate stratigraphy, should be applied to the stratigraphy of the India-Yarlung Zangbo River suture zone. Adopting cyclostratigraphy, magnetostratigraphy, chemostratigraphy, high-precision timing, and multiple stratigraphic divisions and correlations in these analyses will also be necessary.

(2) Improvement analyses are also needed regarding the different types of fossils from the Cretaceous period in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and surrounding areas. Specifically, for the planktonic foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils, radiolarians, ammonites, and bivalves, the accuracy of the stratigraphic and global correlations must be improved. Meanwhile, for the under-studied dinoflagellates, benthic foraminifera, ostracods, gastropods, etc., detailed studies of taxonomy and biostratigraphy are needed.

(3) Many unknowns and controversial results remain regarding the paleogeography of the East Tethys and its surrounding areas during the Cretaceous period. It is, therefore, necessary to strengthen the reconstruction of the Cretaceous paleogeographic evolution of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas, with a particular focus on the role of biogeography. Furthermore, a multidisciplinary and comprehensive analysis is needed to address controversial or particularly urgent topics, including the fragmentation process of the Indian Plate in the Australian–Antarctic continent, the Greater India model, and the paleogeographic evolution of the southern edge of the Asian continent

(4) The major geological events that occurred during the Cretaceous within the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas remain poorly understood. Hence, in-depth research is required to compare the major geological events of the Cretaceous in the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas and to understand their relationship with global geological events. In addition, the coupled relationship between different geological events warrants investigation.

Generally, given the highly complex nature of the Cretaceous stratigraphy, biota, and paleogeography of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau, the current study has only presented a preliminary overview of the stratigraphic framework, biota composition, and paleogeographic evolution of the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau. Accordingly, numerous investigative teams are required to continue their research to elucidate the intricate details associated with the paleogeographic evolution of this geographical region.