My English Teacher

Miss Wang is my English teacher. She looks very young. She's about thirty years old, and she wears glasses. She's funny . But she is strict with us. She wants us to study hard. Her lessons are interesting. We are very happy in her class and we all like her lessons. She is a good teacher, and we all like her.

My Friend

I have a good friend. Her name is May. She is 12 years old. Her telephone number is 87634966. Her birthday is March 5th. She is good at English and Chiese. She often plays the piano. She likes reading books and listening to the music. Her hobbies are reading and listening to music. She is a nice girl. We often help each other. We are good friends.

My favourite sport

I'm a tall boy. My favourite sport is basketball. I often play basketball at weekends.

Sometimes I play it after school. Basketball makes me strong and happy.

My favourite basketball player is Yao Ming. He plays basketball very well. I hope to be a basketball player like him.

My favourite season

My favourite season is winter.

It is usually cold and snowy in my hometown. It is interesting to play in the snow. The Spring Festival is in winter. I often visit my relatives and friends during the festival. I can eat lots of nice food, such as floozi. It is exciting to get lucky money and other presents from my family and friends during the Spring Festival.

Introduction About Myself

Hello, everyone, now I want to give you an introduction about myself. My name is Gina Green. Gina is my first name and Green is my family name. I am a girl at the age of 12. I like chatting on the Internet(上网),and my QQ number is 7845362. What's yours?

My Family

Hello,everyone! I'm Li Mei. Look! This is my family photo. This is my grandmother. She is 58. This is my father. He is a teacher. He is 36，and my mother is 36，too. Who’s that boy? Oh, he is my brother. He is 13 and I am 12. My brother and I are students.

Tom’s Room

Look! This is Tom’s room. His photos are on the wall. His T-shirt is on the bed. His baseball bat is behind the dresser. The keys are in the drawer. The computer is on the desk. Where is Tom’s baseball? Oh, It’s under the bed. What is on the floor? They are Tom’s shoes, socks and computer games. What do you think of Tom’s room?

I like movies

Of all kinds of movies, I like comedies best. I think they're interesting. My favorite actor is Jackie. I like his movie King of Comedy. I think it’s a successful comedy. For action movies, I like The Lord of the Ring best. It’s exciting. I like documentaries because they’re true stories. I like only some thrillers. Many thrillers are scary and boring.

How I spend my weekend

I have a good weekend. On Saturday morning，I do my homework. After lunch, I go shopping with my mother. At about five o’clock, I go to play basketball with my friend. On Sunday, I watch a football game on TV. I often help my mother do housework. I watch TV with my parents in the evening. Then I go to bed at nine o’clock. I’m very happy on weekends.

My Day

I get up early at six every day. After doing some morning exercises, I read English for twenty minutes. At seven I have breakfast. After breakfast I take my schoolbag and go to school. Our class begins at eight, and we have four classes in the morning. After lunch at 12 o’clock, I take a short rest in the classroom. We have three more classes in the afternoon. After school at five , I go back home. I often help my mother do some housework. Sometimes I watch TV. After dinner, I begin to do my homework. Then I take a shower. I go to bed at nine thirty.

My Meal

Hello, everyone! I don’t like sports, but I like eating very much. I eat a lot food every day. For breakfast, I like milk, eggs and bread a lot . For lunch, I like French fries, chicken, hamburgers and apples. For dinnerr, I like fruits, vegetables and rice.