How Anant Ambani struggled from weight gain due to steroids from asthma treatment
TIMESOFINDIA.COM | Last updated on - Mar 3,2024,10:17 ISTShare fbsharetwsharepinshareComments (13)
01/11 Anant Ambani engaged to Radhika Merchant!

Anant Ambani, the youngest son of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, is engaged to his girlfriend and now fiance Radhika Merchant. The engagement was a traditional ceremony at the family's Mumbai home Antilia, and several celebrities attended the function.

For the unversed, Radhika is the daughter of industrialist Viren Merchant. The families announced in 2019 that Anant and Radhika would soon tie the knot.

02/11 Anant's struggle with health and weight gain

In a 2017 interview with TOI, Nita Ambani had explained that Anant “was highly asthmatic so we had to put him on a lot of steroids,” adding that “he suffers from obesity.”

Hence, the treatment for asthma resulted in a lot of weight gain. As per reports, earlier Anant used to weigh around 208 kg.
03/11 How steroids help for asthma treatment?

In case of serious worsening of asthma symptoms (asthma attack), doctors may prescribe a brief course of oral steroids. These are prescribed when your asthma symptoms worsen but you do not require hospitalization. These help to reduce inflammation and swelling in the airways.

​7 simple exercises one can do in office to lose up to 5 kgs ​


​ Also read: Weight loss story: This IT professional got ripped muscles by sleeping for 8 hours and skipping rope everyday ​ READMORE



04/11 How steroids for asthma treatment can lead to weight gain?

According to Asthma and Lung UK, asthma symptoms may make it more difficult for a person to exercise or keep active. Taking steroids in the long term can also make one feel hungrier than usual, which can lead to weight gain. Fluid retention from taking oral steroids can also lead to weight gain.


05/11 Inspiring weight loss transformation for health reasons

In 2016, Anant’s weight-loss transformation broke the internet. His incredible weight loss journey inspired many people. As per reports, Anant lost a whopping 108 kilos in less than 18 months.

In the same interview, Nita Ambani explained,“...We are still fighting obesity. There are so many children who have this, and mothers feel shy admitting it. But I think you have to motivate your child to lose weight, as the child looks up to you all the time. Both of us went away to Los Angeles for some time to a children's obesity hospital so I could get into a routine with him.”

​ Also read: Weight loss story: This woman lost 16 kilos after two C-section deliveries ​ READMORE


06/11 Exercise routine for weight loss

Anant exercised for five-six hours daily. His everyday exercise regimen included a 21-km walk, followed by yoga, weight training, functional training and high-intensity cardio exercises.


Read more: Weight loss story:“I eat meals cooked in mustard/coconut oil to lose weight and reduce cholesterol levels”

07/11 Healthy diet for dropping kilos

Anant shifted to a zero-sugar, high protein, and low-carb diet with less fat. He was consuming 1200-1400 calories every day. His clean diet included fresh green vegetables, lentils, sprouts, pulses, and dairy products such as paneer and milk. He gave up on all the junk foods during his weight loss journey.


Read more: From Alia Bhatt to Blake Lively, celebrity moms address the pressure of losing weight post pregnancy

08/11 What else you need to know?

Apart from having a healthy diet and a rigorous workout routine, Anant Ambani had a planned fitness program which he followed religiously. His fitness trainer Vinod Channa had to do lots of research before planning out the workout program for him. An expert in 16 workout techniques and trainer to several Bollywood celebrities, he had planned a program which helped Anant lose weight without interfering in his medication.

He had lost 108 kilos in 18 months in a natural way.

09/11 Anant Ambani re-gains weight

It was in a leaked 2020 video footage from Radhika Merchant’s birthday celebrations that netizen’s noticed Anant has regained weight. The same was observed when videos of the Ambanis welcoming Isha Ambani’s twin babies went viral on social media in December 2022.
10/11 Anant trolled for weight gain

After pictures from the pre-wedding festivities went viral on social media, many social media users fat-shamed the head of the energy business of RIL. It is a reflection of how people continue to judge others based on their body size. Some judgmental comments included:



A social media user said,“He got massively fat again. Have Ambani's lost control again?”

“A wealthy husband or a son in law is more imp than a healthy husband or son in law,” another wrote.

​ Also read: This Mumbai girl lost 25 kgs by eating home cooked meals everyday ​ READMORE


11/11 Things you can learn from his weightloss journey

Anant Ambani's weight loss journey offers invaluable lessons for all. It underscores the power of commitment and dedication, showcasing that with unwavering determination, any obstacle can be overcome. His transformation highlights the significance of consistency, emphasizing that sustainable efforts over time yield significant results. By adopting a holistic approach focused on healthy lifestyle choices, seeking professional guidance, and inspiring others through his journey, Anant exemplifies the keys to successful weight loss and personal transformation.

Image: ANI

READMORE