 Previously on Walk the Line... The boats are coming in now. We reunite with the Chinese migrants who survived the dangerous Darien Gap crossing from Colombia to Panama. It's too dangerous. We feel like we've lost our lives. But it's in Mexico where they face the most treacherous part of their journey to America. I'm back in Tapachula, a city near Mexico's southern border with Guatemala. Earlier in the day, mom, dad and Lucy arrived in Mexico but were immediately robbed at gunpoint. but were immediately robbed at gunpoint. A few hours later, bad luck struck again when their driver led them into a trap in order to demand a higher fare. But at last, the family makes it to Tapachula. Inside their Airbnb, we see more familiar faces. Uncle Wang and Auntie Lan also arrived in Tapachula, having encountered several rounds of police extortion in Guatemala.到那里来了三个人有枪的搜啊搜啊全部搜啊男的女的连胸罩里面身旁里面通通都要搜反正是光亮好跟你这样说网上真的是很可怜的翻一趟差不多将近一个到两个小时翻得干干净净他怎么翻一件衣服近一個多兩個小時翻得乾乾淨淨的,他怎麼翻一件衣服他就拿著像這個邊邊縫合的很細緻的,真的很細緻的,很專業的對啊,連連這裡鞋子脫了,襪子脫光了我說完蛋了我現在是心裡說我完蛋了我藏在這裡,我肯定要轉移了我覺得中國人太苦了這樣出來還一路上受盡欺凌哎呀,不出來不知道了出來嚇一跳啊爸今天後悔了嗎?現在也太不想後悔了因為現在的心情很平靜了 I don't regret it. A family with two children that we first met in Pasto, Colombia, also arrived in Mexico. Having paid for a smuggling package from Costa Rica, their journey was largely uneventful but still tiring and at times frightening. Auntie Lan is leaving the group tonight. After the experience in Guatemala and hearing the horror stories about Mexico, she's decided to pay a smuggler to bring her all the way to the U.S. border. OK, I'm going to go now. OK, we'll go now. I'm going now. I'm going to die. OK, bye. Bye. Bye. Take care. I'm surprised that a smuggling package from Mexico alone would cost as much as their journey so far. I wonder what exactly they're paying for. Through our fixer Benjamin, we get in touch with the smuggler. He agrees to talk, but with some conditions. We cannot disclose the location of the meeting or show his face, and we must distort his voice. We will call him Mario, which is not his real name. Mario, when was the last time you moved Chinese people? How many? Are the Chinese good customers? A Chinese customer is very complicated. First, because of the language. Second, because of the food. We definitely can't. They have to get used to eating beans, tacos, quesadillas, and what is native to Mexico. Talk to me about your service. Exactly what service do you provide? Sorry, answer first, then we start over. He just keeps walking away to take phone calls. Actually sounds like he's negotiating payment for some of the migrants. You're very busy. How much of a difference does your service make as opposed to the migrants traveling by themselves on their own? How do you make sure once they encounter a checkpoint, they don't get sent back? So out of $9,000, how much is going into your pocket? Because you have so many people you need to pay.肚子都沒了就一路上了我就是肚子沒了我挺開心的因為我在家裡跑了五年肚子也就這樣了就是很難解的是到了美國之後想打算幹嗎剛開始沒有公卡的話我只能是洗碗的量你們兩個你覺得誰會先找到工作我覺得我我也很好我找我不怕苦我怕什么我在国内的困扰我也不怕就卷在乌鲁马15美金就15美金人家盖一个就盖不住我可以盖三个月有什么关系我千万不要卷一单他不让我们卷呢其实我觉得美国政府这次放进去这么多几百万有了吧是不是那些西方的希望降低一下人工的劳动力你觉得是放你们进去希望你们去卷对吧来来来 吃饭爸爸买超市的鱼超市的鱼你是要拿的快速鱼是要拿的小姐到早上九月六我们派钱来玩我自己开餐厅中西餐厅你是要拿的快速快速要拿的小姐大早上九六我们开学那一晚我只开菜厅中西菜厅名字都想好我们都是五吧对在那中西菜厅我就要喝菜啊就中西菜厅要不咱就开吧我太大了这是基金妹找的是吗哈哈啊你是怎么回事不知道你是怎么回事怎么了她昨天怎么没有送到你啊我已经回地马拉了基金妹回来了你是怎么样被轮回的什么情况你现在到了没有到了如果到了到我这边来了我这里地址放给你军事会是谁的情况和我们一起走的昨天昨天一起的队友不对你们不一起下的车吗对呀他都被护送回去了可能路上被警察碰到了被送回威廷马拉了对 他今天又过来了 In this last year, there was more than 2.4 million people apprehended crossing the border illegally. There were more than 24,000 people come across the border illegally from China. people come across the border illegally from China. I will sign three laws today to better protect Texas and America from Biden's border neglect. It creates a criminal offense for illegal entry into Texas from a foreign nation.我今天晚上去做大巴头阿里亚加我们要经过好几个几个代求你与我们在一起保守我们这个团队也请求你保守在路上所有的中国人我们知道我们的艰难和梦为何离开我们的国家求你帮助我们在天上的路不叫我们遇见失败救我们脱离凶恶阿嬷好把垃圾带下去帮我关掉空调关了没关了放在那边我走了走吧我来帮你 Because flights out of Tapachula are tightly controlled, the group has opted to take the public bus. First, they wish to get to Arriaga, a city 100 kilometers away. We decide to travel with a group, disguising as travel vloggers. At Tapachula's bus terminal we run into another family, a young couple with a toddler from my hometown, Chongqing. Come on, put it on. It's so cold. Come on. The black guy in front of me smiled very kindly at me. He nodded his head. We knew that we were going to the same place. We were all going to the same place. We're now on a bus out of Tapachula. This is the journey that has been worrying the Chinese migrants for days. In the next four hours they will pass through as many as 17 checkpoints and each and every one of them can turn their way. The Chongqing couple had been turned away at a checkpoint just yesterday, and they're visibly more anxious than the rest of the group. I don't know if it's Chen or not. But with a bit of luck, the bus drives through the first two checkpoints without stopping. But luck could only carry them and us so far. from hong kong i have visa yes visa two police officers just came out to the bus pretending to be a security check, but very obviously they were trying to pick up passengers by their skin color. Anyone that looks Asian or African, they will come up and reveal a 200 peso note in their hand asking for bribes. Half an hour later the bus stops again, this time at an immigration checkpoint.走可以了最後一站前面就是阿里亞家了他就把我送到收了收了没钱没钱他也没办法他很劳苦包里我们还要预备了四百块钱都给他所以他沒錢,沒辦法,他很勞苦我們還要預備了400塊錢給他就跟我的預案一樣,我預案是預備了1000塊 ¡Adiós!所有人都是移民很多女生都被逮捕了好冲冠是什么意思大家一起在一起游行队伍冲冠他法不自他众中国有句话叫法不自他众 She's talking about Jia, the cook who made us dinner in Tapachula two days ago. He was on a bus an hour behind the group yesterday, but now it seems he never made it. Oh, God. And he's now got this crazy plan. He's bought a motorbike and he will try to ride the motorbike tomorrow morning around the checkpoints and make his way out of Tabachula. After a brief overnight stay in Arriaga, the migrants set out again. Last night's bus journey went well, so the group is getting more ambitious. Their goal this time is to reach Mexico City, some 900 kilometers away. At the bus terminal, we encounter more Chinese migrants.一種調研的關係然後我一個朋友在上海就驚慌了他直接挪了客戶資產兩千萬吧直接在美國也在美國了兄弟有事嗎你看我家的小孩都在快點過來吧好好好可以問一個拜拜拜拜 From here to Mexico City, it'll be a 20-hour bus ride, if we reach it at all. Our security advisors insisted that we cannot ride along with the Chinese migrants anymore because the bus will travel through cartel territories where different factions are actively battling for control. They say anything could happen. Robbery, kidnapping, rape, assault. The road ahead will be nothing like what they've experienced so far.我们晚上被改下车了现在等于是不该走夜路了我们就在那个解杀的门边 None of the Chinese migrants made it to Mexico City. Just a few hours into the journey, they were all pulled off the bus. Early in the morning, I try to retrace at their steps. There's a Chinese guy by the roadside that we saw last night at the bus stop. I've spotted about five or six Chinese people. That's the dad with the baby. That's them. There they are. We cannot stop here? That's fine. That's fine. Just stop. Did you get a shot of them? I think I'm back at the club. That's fine, that's fine, just go. Yeah. Did you get a shot of them? I think, back of the car. No, we're swimming back. We're swimming back. Yeah, we're swimming back. Yeah. And the situation here is we cannot get out of the car. We cannot offer them any assistance because Mexico, along with the US, makes it a crime for anyone to give them any help at all. That leaves the only people who's willing to give them a ride along this route, the smugglers. Oh, I see them now. As we re-approach the Chinese migrants, we pick up a tail. A red Nissan, which pulls ahead of us for a bit and rejoins us only a few hundred metres down the road. Mexico is the world's most dangerous country for journalists. In 2022, 13 news workers were killed for doing their job. Our fixer Benjamin insists that we drive out of the area. And after this maneuver, we lose the Chinese group again.有看到你们但是后来有黑帮跟踪我们我们就停了一下现在路上就没有再看到你们了你们走到哪里了走到哪里了发个定位给我 好吗我们昨天是真正的露宿街头不是街头 野外野外野外待了四个小时那风吹得很轻全是沙子那头露宿街头不是街头 野外野外野外待了4个月那他们去点空气你全是杀人那边有露宿的一帮人我们这交钱很平安他们会想就是相当一点就是你交了钱 他很感谢你他给你提供保护嘛他这个能有自诩定心的有没有有人专门计价所以占好了然后是加上就是一条龙头花多少钱1800不是1800就2000还没占费 I'm puzzled as to why immigration will stop them but not detain or deport them. Then I recall a conversation I had some days ago with a mysterious Chinese man in Tapachula. He claims to be a business owner in Mexico and has helped a lot of Chinese migrants. You're too far away from the US. That's how it is. It's very far now. People are almost always walking on the bus. Why is it getting farther and farther away? Because of the pressure from the black band. That's how they can get business there. Otherwise, they just walk around. After catching up on some sleep, the migrants decide to go again.包有個很大的目的就是說他實際上是利用你的交流我們這樣走我們知道往後走到那邊心裡很痛不要那個 沒關係的我好想直接到牆口你好想直接到牆邊沒關係的 遲早會到的我覺得中間常站好特別懷念人像這樣的這樣的民間都特別有那個去路感這麼多國家就是中國最安詳的哪一個國家晚上12點還可以女生一個人下樓的也就中國了真的我媽媽被爸爸氣死了每个国家晚上12点还可以女生一个人下楼也不错那是我妈妈被爸爸气死了她准备想要回南洋她正在在外面打门票呢怎么炒掉的干嘛炒什么时候炒掉的我也不知道可恶现在已经没法控制他們了因為他們現在已經開始分開了他們不會分開媽媽我們想回去做飯吃不會你放心好了怎麼可能呢那叫做氣話他們不會分開因為他們很愛你很愛家很愛爸爸媽媽也很愛爸爸爸爸也愛媽媽才不會 After waving the Chinese migrants goodbye for a second time in two days, we drive through the state of Oaxaca to catch a flight to Tijuana, 2,700 kilometers away. The migrants are traveling by bus a few hundred kilometers at a time, a journey that would take them days. Just as we land, we hear bad news. A week ago in Tapachula, I had visited an NGO Where are you going? is permitted for 60 days. They can be detained up to 60 days. The detention system in Mexico have all the conditions to say it is a torturing environment. We document physical violence, psychological violence. Everybody has one before and after facing detention system in Mexico. Mexico's migrant detention system in Mexico. Mexico's migrant detention system has been notorious for a long time, but it came to a boiling point in March, 2023, when migrants in a detention center started a fire as a protest. The guards walked off, allowing the fire to get out of control and eventually kill 40 migrants trapped in their cells. Tijuana is Mexico's second largest city. It sits on a border with the U.S. adjacent to San Diego in California. The city's most prominent feature? The border wall. On the Mexican side, the wall has become a major attraction. About 100 meters into the water, the wall just ends. I don't know why they didn't think migrants could simply swim around it. The water is rough, but desperate people do desperate things, right? In fact, migrants try crossing the wall here and elsewhere all the time, and some die trying. At a small memorial site, a white cross is erected for each soul lost crossing the wall. Before this recent surge in migrant numbers, statistics reveal that one migrant dies every day trying to reach America. mafia y que están divididos porque está el cartel de Sinaloa, están los arellano y están los este Jalisco Nueva Generación. Se juega la vida al venirse para acá y querer cruzar para el otro lado. Cuando ellos cruzan solos tienen el riesgo de que ya sea que los se topen con algún animal, or kill them. We've been in Tijuana for two days and have not heard from the family since their detention. I sent them messages on WhatsApp, but none have been picked up. Mexican immigration only gave us two weeks to be in the country. And our time in Mexico has come to an end. We leave Tijuana to enter California. Once in the US, I head to Fat Mending Plaza in Monterey Park. It's a first stop for many new migrants.跟做相比呢?这边更难吗?更难,更难后悔吗?后悔也没用啊,后悔跑回去更加打脸是不是?等一下你什么时候来的?我昨天从移民局出来的身上还有钱吗?现在不多,就一两百美金之前不知道这边工作那么难找知道,知道,但是过来有希望啊在国内是没希望的现在还是这么觉得?对,如果是说美国没希望的话 I know, but there is hope. There is no hope in China. You still think so? Yes. If the US had no hope, the whole world wouldn't come here. So all over the square, there are just these men hanging around in groups. And it seems that they're pretty used to this already. It doesn't seem like anyone's in a rush to go anywhere. It's been four days since I last heard from the family. And finally, I hear news of their release.姐姐,你們怎麼樣了?我們在賓館裡休息,反正沒辦法了,每條路都堵得死死的,也沒辦法了。中間吵架了?吵架了,我們這幾天吵,吵了好,好了吵。主要的分歧是什麼?分歧是我要包,他不包,一想到錢一包都有十几万他又舍不得然后他觉得要自己传结果可能现在传好像每一条路都传不通这不包我就当时我就拎着鞋子就往他身上扎我气死了 We are out of room. And it's not if people will be sleeping on the streets, it's when. Exactly four weeks after we met in Quito, Ecuador, Auntie Lan is the first in a group to reach the U.S.感觉就像美国吗不像像没有走出中国一样你好你那里有床位吗有在哪里我一个人就是在那裡我去拿一把我來拿吧我來補補我來也是上頭換車上到這邊不是歷經千辛萬苦你就能夠到美國有立足之地的你到了這裡才是重新開始的剛剛開始的1%像打遊戲一樣戏一样第一关还没过呢我这路上都已经感觉好苦对吧这里面路上去手手而且还是老话赚钱不出力出力不赚钱真的你卖苦力的永远是底层就是没有用那我们今天先学习一下我们的词汇部分仓库送货订单发货 Purchase order. Shipping. Uncle 13, another member of the group, also arrives in California. After being deported to Guatemala, he paid a smuggler to cross Mexico.你家现在还有房位吗?现在没有了满了是吧?好好好他人家也没有了怪死了生意那么好吗?现在人特别多这时候单间了厂位都没有了这也太慘了全部都關門,不是要找區的找什麼地方都不容易他們死亡了,這些地方这些对象太不习惯了在国内,你随时24小时你想去哪里住,他都会有地方住你想去东西,随时都有地方去这里的感觉是9点钟一过,就像是世界末日一样找不到人很不习惯 It feels like a trade at 9 o'clock. I can't find my way out. I'm not used to it. The dozens of migrants we've met on the journey have different reasons for leaving China, and not all have a strong claim for asylum. Just as I wonder how they manage their applications, someone clearly mistaking me for a new arrival inadvertently reveals a secret.移民局是会那里留下的证据我不能因为我发表这篇文章拿报纸去我发表这篇文章我回去会被破坏一把发现它很便宜因为它这个报纸发行量不大华人看到的不是特别普遍如果特别普遍你还怕张耀到中国去你要它不普遍他们知道这个成功过吗跟这儿发文章 闭火当然有成功的很多人那您问问律师就知道了所以这个报纸是谁办的呀大纪元办的大纪元不行大纪元报不行这个报非常厉害非常大你也等不起那如果要发文章的话我找谁呢这个钱给谁你要发文章我也不能说我给你一个电话号码长对我会找他他跟他说一下好的你这事别打成气我比较多的人都知道你知道那你等你把自己发出去你自己瞧瞧你发吧不是 你还打成气不知道你家人对不对对不起您所拨打的电话仍然没有设置再见 I'm sorry, but the person you called has a voicemail box that has not been set up yet. Goodbye. It didn't go through. But it's interesting, right? So a silent seeking is in and of itself a new business in Monterey Park. Jia, having quickly abandoned his plan to ride a motorbike through Mexico, also arrives in Monterey Park.从墨西哥到马来西亚也会来到曼特利华这车也有牌吗迷路就走在街上看着感觉真切吗不真实很不真实而且陌生感特别强不亲切陌生感特别强不亲切现在我的脑子也不清醒需要停下来思考一下就是休息不好还是怎么样就是休息不好基本上没有完整的睡眠第一天的移民局一个小房间15平左右挤三四十个人你没有办法躺下来睡觉的躺不下就是人挨人 人挤人比如说能躺下二十个 There were 15 rooms in total, with about 30 people. You couldn't sleep in those rooms? There were 20 people in total, and 15 people were sitting on the chairs. I felt like I was a prisoner. I still had a psychological problem. It was hard. As Jia and I chatted over dinner, I received a panicked message from the Chongqing couple with the toddler's son. Hi, this is sort of a strange story. I'm a journalist making a documentary about some of the migrants crossing the border wall. One couple had just gotten in touch. I think they don't know where they are. They have a two-year-old child with them. They sent me GPS coordinates, and they've been there since the middle of the day. They have no food, no water, and they don't know what to do. I know all these guys have an extraordinarily difficult journey,你们有来接你们吗我知道这些人都过了非常艰难的旅程但我从来没有对任何一个人感到害怕我觉得这就是他们最接近的死亡真实的 A week after I arrived in California, mom, dad and Lucy finally crossed the border wall. Having exhausted their own funds, they've had to borrow money to pay a smuggler for passage into America.這個城市叫什麼?我看一下這個,Mónica, Santa Mónica Pela這些女的長得真漂亮這是赤道,這裡是北回归线就是温哥华我们就赤道转过来赤道就是香港我们这个位置大概比上海可能还有北面一点好我瞅瞅你拿电话走重新重新重新这拍的太丑了好美 落日就像脑海里的美国这样漂亮我们的国家在死亡我们的国境开放并被罪犯与数百万个不公平的无法逃跑人物泄漏到我们的国家 of illegal aliens pour into our country. Within moments of my inauguration, we will begin the largest domestic deportation operation in America. Thank you.在这一天,我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。我们的家人都在家里。高楼大厦要是我能在这里面上班就好了 I'm sorry. you