The Challenge (2023 film)

挑战（2023 年电影）

Article

Talk

Read

Edit

View history

Tools

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

来自维基百科，自由的百科全书

This article may require copy editing for grammar, style, cohesion, tone, or spelling. You can assist by editing it. (June 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

本文可能需要进行语法、风格、连贯性、语调或拼写方面的编辑。您可以通过编辑来协助改进。（2023 年 6 月）（了解如何在何时移除此模板消息）

The Challenge 挑战

2023 Russian stamp dedicated to the film

2023 年致力于电影的俄罗斯邮票

Directed by 由...导演	Klim Shipenko 克里姆·希彭科

Screenplay by 编剧

Klim Shipenko 克里姆·希彭科

Bakur Bakuradze (ru) 巴库尔·巴库拉泽（俄语）

Ivan Zamorov 伊万·扎莫罗夫

Nailya Malakhova 奈莉娅·马拉霍娃

Produced by 由

Konstantin Ernst[note 1]

Dmitry Rogozin

Sergey Titinkov (ru) Sergey Titinkov（俄语）

Eduard Iloyan (ru) Eduard Iloyan（俄语）

Denis Zhalinsky (ru) Denis Zhalinsky（俄语）

Vitaly Shlyappo (ru) 维塔利·施利亚波（俄语）

Alexey Trotsyuk (ru) 阿列克谢·特罗茨尤克（俄语）

Mikhail Tkachenko 米哈伊尔·塔卡琴科

Olga Danova 奥尔加·达诺娃

Natalia Smirnova 娜塔莉娅·斯米尔诺娃

Svetlana Izvekova 斯韦特拉娜·伊兹韦科娃

Nonna Aristarkhova 非娜·阿里斯塔尔科娃

Starring 主演

Yulia Peresild 尤利娅·佩列西尔德

Miloš Biković 米洛什·比科维奇

Vladimir Mashkov 弗拉基米尔·马什科夫

Alexey Grishin 阿列克谢·格里辛

Andrey Shchepochkin 安德烈·谢波奇金

Aleksandr Baluev 亚历山大·巴卢耶夫

Igor Gordin 伊戈尔·戈尔丁

Yelena Valyushkina 叶琳娜·瓦卢什基娜

Aleksandr Samoylenko 亚历山大·萨莫伦科

Alexey Barabash 阿列克谢·巴拉巴什

Cinematography 电影摄影

Boris Litovchenko 波里斯·利托夫琴科

Klim Shipenko 克林姆·希彭科

Edited by 由编辑	Tim Pavelko

Music by 音乐由

Nikolay Rostov 尼古拉·罗斯托夫

Sergey Cheremisinov 谢尔盖·切列米辛诺夫

Production 生产

companies 公司

Glavkosmos

Roscosmos State Corporation

俄罗斯国家航天集团公司

Channel One 第一频道

Yellow, Black and White

黄色、黑色和白色

START Studio START 工作室

Cinema Fund 电影基金

Algous Studio Algous 工作室

Tinkoff Bank Tinkoff 银行

MegaFon

Distributed by 分销商	Central Partnership 中央合作伙伴

Release dates 发布日期

April 12, 2023 (State Kremlin Palace)

2023 年 4 月 12 日（克里姆林宫）

April 20, 2023 (Russia) 2023 年 4 月 20 日（俄罗斯）

Running time 运行时间	165 minutes 165 分钟

Country 国家	Russia 俄罗斯

Language 语言	Russian 俄语

Budget 预算

₽905 million (gross) ₽9.05 亿卢布（毛额）

₽1.155 billion (net) ₽11.55 亿卢布（净额）

Box office 票房	$23.4 million (total amount)[1][2]

2340 万美元（总额） [1] [2]

The Challenge 挑战

Cast launched to ISS for the film

在国际空间站上为电影拍摄的演员发射

Space career 太空职业

A film shot on a space station

在太空站上拍摄的电影

Time in space 太空中的时间	11 days, 22 hours and 13 minutes (35–40 minutes of production)

11 天，22 小时和 13 分钟（35-40 分钟的生产时间）

Missions 任务	Soyuz MS-19/Soyuz MS-18 (Expedition 65)

联盟 MS-19/ 联盟 MS-18（第 65 次远征）

(Equipment launched on Progress MS-17[3] and returned on Soyuz MS-18)

（设备在进步 MS-17 上发射，并在联盟 MS-18 上返回）

Mission insignia 任务徽章

The Challenge (Russian: Вызов, romanized: Vyzov) is a 2023 Russian space drama film co-written and directed by Klim Shipenko. It is the first professionally made fictional film that has scenes shot in space. These took place aboard the International Space Station. The film stars Yulia Peresild as a surgeon sent to space to help an injured cosmonaut. The film's cast also includes Miloš Biković and Vladimir Mashkov. The film crew was accompanied by cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov, Oleg Novitsky, and Pyotr Dubrov, and NASA astronaut Mark T. Vande Hei.

挑战（俄语：Вызов，罗马化：Vyzov）是一部 2023 年的俄罗斯太空剧情电影，由克里姆·希彭科（Klim Shipenko）共同编剧和执导。这是第一部在太空拍摄场景的专业制作的虚构电影。这些场景发生在国际空间站上。电影由尤利娅·佩列西尔德（Yulia Peresild）饰演一名外科医生，被派往太空帮助一名受伤的宇航员。电影的演员阵容还包括米洛什·比科维奇（Miloš Biković）和弗拉基米尔·马什科夫（Vladimir Mashkov）。电影剧组由宇航员安东·什卡普列罗夫（Anton Shkaplerov）、奥列格·诺维茨基（Oleg Novitsky）和彼得·杜布罗夫（Pyotr Dubrov）以及 NASA 宇航员马克·T·范德海（Mark T. Vande Hei）陪同。

This is the first collaboration between the Russian space corporation Roscosmos and the public broadcaster Channel One, with an approximate budget of around 1.155 billion rubles.[4] It is also the world's first feature-length fiction film to have scenes shot in space by a professional filmmaker.[5][6][7] Filming in orbit took place for nearly two weeks, and premiered on the World Cosmonautics Day, the 62nd anniversary of the first human spaceflight by Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin, 12 April 2023, at the State Kremlin Palace in the Moscow Kremlin.[8]

这是俄罗斯航天公司 Roscosmos 与公共广播公司第一频道的首次合作，预计约有 11.55 亿卢布的预算。这也是世界上第一部由专业电影制片人在太空拍摄的长篇虚构电影。在轨拍摄持续了近两周，并于 2023 年 4 月 12 日，苏联宇航员尤里·加加林首次人类航天飞行 62 周年纪念日，在莫斯科克里姆林宫首映。 [4]

The Challenge was theatrically released in Serbia and Russia on 20 April 2023 by Central Partnership, on an analogue of IMAX called CosMAX.[9][10]

挑战在 2023 年 4 月 20 日由中央合作伙伴在塞尔维亚和俄罗斯上映，使用了一种叫做 CosMAX 的 IMAX 类似物。 [9] [10]

The film collected more than 1 billion rubles at the box office by the thirteenth day of theatrical showings.[11] It holds the record for the highest-grossing Russian film on its opening day, and it grossed over 2 billion rubles against a production budget of 905 million rubles.[12][13]

该电影在上映的第 13 天就在票房上收集了超过 10 亿卢布。 [11] 它创下了俄罗斯电影首日票房最高纪录，总票房超过 20 亿卢布，制作预算为 9.05 亿卢布。 [12] [13]

Plot 情节

Cosmonaut Oleg Bogdanov falls under a stream of debris from an emergency satellite during a spacewalk, receives a serious lung injury, and needs urgent medical care. Several ribs are broken, and the right lung is severely deformed and develops purulent inflammation. Doctors on Earth conclude Bogdanov needs surgical intervention; it is impossible to delay the operation too far into the future. Moreover, it will have to be done directly on the International Space Station; otherwise, Bogdanov will almost certainly die from shock during atmospheric re-entry.

宇航员奥列格·博格丹诺夫在太空行走期间被一颗紧急卫星的碎片击中，受到严重的肺部损伤，需要紧急医疗护理。他的几根肋骨骨折，右肺严重变形并发生化脓性炎症。地球上的医生得出结论，博格丹诺夫需要进行外科手术干预；将手术推迟太久是不可能的。此外，手术必须直接在国际空间站上进行，否则博格丹诺夫几乎肯定会在大气再入过程中因休克而死亡。

Seven candidates volunteer to urgently fly into orbit, all of them quite young but experienced professional thoracic surgeons. Their evaluators gradually eliminate six of them during accelerated training. The seventh, Vladislav Nikolaev, before Mission Director Volin makes a final decision, proposes, in his opinion, a more suitable candidate, Evgenia Belyaeva (an event of which she is unaware). She is selected, much to her surprise. She and Vladislav have a very close friendship but, though Nikolaev is interested, Belyaeva is not open to more.

七名候选人自愿紧急飞入轨道，他们都是相当年轻但经验丰富的胸外科医生。在加速培训期间，他们的评估者逐渐淘汰了其中的六人。第七个人，弗拉迪斯拉夫·尼古拉耶夫，在任务主任沃林做出最后决定之前，提出了一个更合适的候选人，叶甫根尼娅·别廖娃（她对此并不知情）。令她惊讶的是，她被选中了。她和弗拉迪斯拉夫有着非常亲密的友谊，但尽管尼古拉耶夫对她有兴趣，别廖娃并不对进一步发展感兴趣。

Belyaeva observes the entire test program at the GCTC in Star City, for roughly two weeks. During that time, her primary focus are the logistics needed to successfully operate, working closely with the astronauts on every aspect in a simulator of the ISS. She observes and is only added late to various training including periods of oxygen starvation in a pressure chamber, 6-g exercises in a centrifuge, and 25-second periods of weightlessness in a custom-built Il-76. Her inclusion is only done as Flight Director Volin becomes more and more aware that she is the most thorough and prepared of them all.

贝廖娃在位于星城的GCTC观察整个测试计划，大约持续两周。在此期间，她的主要关注点是成功运行所需的后勤工作，与宇航员密切合作，在国际空间站模拟器中的各个方面进行工作。她观察并且只在后期加入各种训练，包括在压力舱中进行缺氧训练，离心机中进行6G运动，以及在定制的Il-76中进行25秒的失重训练。她的加入只是因为飞行主任沃林越来越意识到她是最细致和准备充分的人。

Simultaneously, Belyaeva faces many problems at home. As a single mother who lost her husband in a car accident ten years ago (for which she still does not forgive herself), she does not have enough time to raise her teenage daughter Masha; she also needs to take care of her mother, who often forgets to take her medicine on time.

同时，别廖娃在家里面临许多问题。作为一个十年前丧夫的单身母亲（她至今仍无法原谅自己），她没有足够的时间抚养她的十几岁的女儿玛莎；她还需要照顾经常忘记按时服药的母亲。

Belyaeva also has only two Soyuz crew members able to assist her: two Roscosmos cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov (a part of the ground training team who will accompany her to orbit) and Pyotr Kudryavtsev (already on the station) and caring as he can for the injured Bogdanov. They will manage to act as efficient assistants during the operation.

别延娃只有两名能够帮助她的联盟号宇航员：两名俄罗斯宇航员安东·夏普列罗夫（地面训练团队的一员，将陪同她进入轨道）和彼得·库德里亚夫采夫（已经在空间站上），并尽力照顾受伤的博格达诺夫。他们将在手术期间充当高效的助手。

Shkaplerov and Belyaeva launch aboard a Soyuz spacecraft, which hurriedly docks with the ISS. After some initial disorientation, Belyaeva focuses completely when the injured Bogdanov slips into deeper trouble.

Shkaplerov和Belyaeva乘坐联盟号飞船发射升空，并匆忙与国际空间站对接。在一开始有些迷失后，当受伤的Bogdanov陷入更深的困境时，Belyaeva完全专注起来。

Upon beginning the operation, after penetrating Bogdanov's chest cavity, Belyaeva encounters unexpected complications. Blood clots and a non-expandable "crust" have formed over one of Bogdanov's lungs. Mission Control decides to give the order for an emergency descent, gambling that Bogdanov will still have a small chance of surviving. However, Belyaeva protests, citing the Hippocratic Oath as her justification. At first, she is overruled, but after much debate and at the risk of his future standing, Director Volin gives her permission to continue.

开始手术后，贝廖娃在穿透波格达诺夫的胸腔时遇到了意外的并发症。血块和一个不可扩张的“外壳”形成在波格达诺夫的一侧肺部上。任务控制中心决定下达紧急下降的命令，赌波格达诺夫仍有一丝生存的机会。然而，贝廖娃提出抗议，以希波克拉底誓言为理由。起初，她被否决了，但在经过长时间的辩论并冒着未来地位的风险后，沃林主任同意让她继续进行手术。

However, her attempts to complete the surgery by conventional means are failure. When at its most hopeless, Nikolaev who has remained on Earth after giving up his spot for her but is watching the broadcast operation, suggests an unexpected and risky solution based upon a shared experience with Belyaeva during training. Improvising both surgical tools and techniques, she managed to complete the operation over seven long hours.

然而，她尝试用传统方法完成手术却失败了。当情况最为绝望时，尼古拉耶夫留在地球上，放弃了自己的位置给她，但仍然观看着手术的广播，他根据与别廖娃在训练中的共同经历提出了一个意想不到且冒险的解决方案。她 improvising both surgical tools and techniques，成功地在七个漫长的小时内完成了手术。

Tension mounts as they must wait several days to gauge the success of the operation. Bogdanov eventually revives and, now healthy, heals quickly. Before returning to Earth, the astronauts treat Belyaeva to some zero-gee games (many associated with food) and a clandestine spacewalk. During the spacewalk, she symbolically releases her guilt over her part in her husband's death.

紧张情绪逐渐升高，因为他们必须等待几天来评估这次行动的成功。波格丹诺夫最终苏醒过来，现在身体健康，恢复迅速。在返回地球之前，宇航员们给别廖娃带来了一些零重力游戏（其中许多与食物有关）和一次秘密太空行走。在太空行走期间，她象征性地释放了自己在丈夫死亡中所扮演的角色所带来的内疚感。

Upon her and Bogdanov's safe return, Belyaeva renews her connection to her estranged daughter. Upon meeting Nikolaev at the hospital, she learns that he is the one who told Volin to send Belyaeva in his place as he would pick her first as well. After confessing their mutual love, they kiss. Her mother has a final minor scene before the closing credits.

在她和博格达诺夫安全返回后，别廖娃重新与她疏远的女儿建立联系。在医院见到尼古拉耶夫后，她得知他是告诉沃林让别廖娃代替他去的人，因为他也会选择她。在坦白彼此的爱意后，他们亲吻了。在片尾字幕之前，她的母亲有一个最后的小场景。

Cast 演员阵容

Yulia Peresild as Evgenia Vladimirovna 'Zhenya' Belyaeva, a thoracic surgeon who is launched on an emergency mission to save the life of an ailing cosmonaut

尤利娅·佩列西尔德饰演叶甫根尼娅·弗拉基米罗芙娜“珍娅”别廖娃，一位胸外科医生，被紧急派遣执行拯救一名病重宇航员的任务

Miloš Biković as Vladislav Nikolaevich Nikolaev, as Doctor Vlad, one of the surgeons selected to be a candidate for the flight

米洛什·比科维奇饰演弗拉迪斯拉夫·尼古拉耶维奇·尼古拉耶夫，医生弗拉德，被选为飞行候选人之一的外科医生

Vladimir Mashkov as Constructor Konstantin Volin, a flight director at Mission Control

弗拉基米尔·马什科夫饰演康斯特拉克特·康斯坦丁·沃林，任务控制中心的飞行指挥员

Alexey Grishin as Gennady Simonov, a replacement flight director

亚历克谢·格里辛饰演根纳季·西蒙诺夫，一位替补飞行指挥员

Andrey Shchepochkin as Valentin Vershinin, chief surgeon at the Medical Simulation Center of the Botkin Hospital, Evgenia Belyaeva and Vladislav Nikolaev's supervisor

安德烈·什切波金饰演瓦连京·维尔什尼因，博特金医院医学模拟中心的主治医师，是叶甫根尼娅·别廖娃和弗拉迪斯拉夫·尼古拉耶夫的上级

Aleksandr Baluev as a general manager at the Roscosmos Space Center

亚历山大·巴卢耶夫作为罗斯科斯莫斯太空中心的总经理

Igor Gordin as Dmitry, the crew physician

伊戈尔·戈尔丁饰演德米特里，船员医生

Yelena Valyushkina as Galina, Evgenia Belyaeva's mother

叶琳娜·瓦柳什基娜饰演加琳娜，叶甫根尼娅·别廖娃的母亲

Aleksandr Samoylenko as Prosecutor Semyonov

亚历山大·萨莫伊连科饰演检察官谢缅诺夫

Alexey Barabash 阿列克谢·巴拉巴什

Cameos 特别出演

Anton Shkaplerov as a Roscosmos cosmonaut

安东·什卡普列罗夫饰演俄罗斯航天局宇航员

Oleg Novitsky as Oleg Bogdanov, the injured cosmonaut

奥列格·诺维茨基饰演受伤的宇航员奥列格·博格达诺夫

Pyotr Dubrov as Pyotr Kudryavtsev, a test cosmonaut on the ISS

作为国际空间站上的测试宇航员，Pyotr Dubrov 饰演 Pyotr Kudryavtsev

Anatoly Zabruskov as Anatoly Kochetkov, an instructor in a zero gravity aircraft

Anatoly Zabruskov 饰演 Anatoly Kochetkov，一名零重力飞机的教练

Other cast members 其他演员

Maxim Stoyanov as Roman Biker, one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

Maxim Stoyanov 饰演罗曼·拜克，被选为飞行候选医生之一

Benik Arakelyan as Rafik, one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

Benik Arakelyan 饰演拉菲克，被选为飞行候选医生之一

Arthur Beschastnyy as Vasily 'Vasya', one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

Arthur Beschastnyy 饰演瓦西里“瓦西亚”，被选为飞行候选医生之一

Andrey Kuzichev as Valery 'Valera', one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

安德烈·库齐切夫饰演瓦列里“瓦列拉”，被选为飞行候选人之一的外科医生之一

Sergey Godin as Pavel, one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

谢尔盖·戈丁饰演帕维尔，被选为飞行候选人之一的外科医生之一

Simon Steinberg as Kirill, one of the surgeons selected as a candidate for the flight

西蒙·斯坦伯格饰演基里尔，被选为飞行候选人之一的外科医生之一

Mikhail Troynik as Sergey, Zhenya Belyaeva's husband

米哈伊尔·特罗伊尼克饰演谢尔盖，真娜·别利亚娃的丈夫

Varvara Volodina as Masha, Zhenya Belyaeva's daughter

瓦尔瓦拉·沃洛迪娜饰演玛莎，真娜·别利亚娃的女儿

Danila Fedyunin as Borya, Masha's boyfriend

达尼拉·费杜宁饰演鲍里亚，玛莎的男朋友

Sofya Skya as Tatiana 'Tanya', an anesthesiologist

索菲娅·斯卡亚饰演塔蒂亚娜'Tanya'，一名麻醉师

Marianna Korobeynikova as Ksenia Bogdanova, wife of cosmonaut Oleg Bogdanov

玛丽安娜·科罗贝伊尼科娃饰演奥列格·博格丹诺夫的妻子克谢尼娅·博格丹诺娃

Production 制作

Background and pre-production

背景和前期制作

The screening process began on 15 March 2021,[14] as a joint project between Russia's federal space corporation Roscosmos, the state-controlled television network Channel One and production company Yellow, Black and White. The streaming service START took part in partnership with Tinkoff Bank and MegaFon, a company supported by the Cinema Fund Russia.[clarification needed][15][16] The filming equipment was launched on Progress MS-17[3] and returned on Soyuz MS-18.

2021 年 3 月 15 日，筛选过程开始，作为俄罗斯联邦航天公司 Roscosmos、国家控制的电视网络 Channel One 和制作公司 Yellow，Black and White 的联合项目。流媒体服务 START 与 Tinkoff Bank 和由俄罗斯电影基金支持的 MegaFon 合作参与其中。拍摄设备在 Progress MS-17 上发射，并在 Soyuz MS-18 上返回。

According to Konstantin Ernst, Director General of Channel One, the filmmakers wanted to confirm Russia's leadership in the space sector and restore the prestige of the cosmonaut profession in the eyes of the younger generation (as an example, Yulia Peresild herself did not dream of spaceflight as a child).[17] The unique experience of express training for non-professional flight may subsequently be useful for sending scientists or doctors into space on an urgent basis.[18] The development of the project was covered within the framework of the "Evening Urgant" program, whose members moved to the cosmodrome a week before launch.[17]

根据 Channel One 总经理 Konstantin Ernst 的说法，电影制片人希望确认俄罗斯在太空领域的领导地位，并在年轻一代眼中恢复宇航员职业的威望（例如，尤利娅·佩列西尔德本人在孩提时代并没有梦想成为宇航员）。非专业飞行的快速培训的独特经验可能随后对紧急情况下派遣科学家或医生进入太空有用。该项目的发展在“Evening Urgant”节目的框架内进行报道，节目成员在发射前一周搬到了发射场。

About three thousand applications were submitted for the main role, for which Peresild was ultimately chosen.[17] The number of which was reduced to 20–30.

大约有三千份申请提交了主角角色，最终选择了 Peresild。其中的数量减少到 20-30 个。

"We selected 20 candidates, and Yulia was not included in this list, because she was filming in another project. As a result, after all the tests of the medical board, all these actresses did not pass the selection. Not because they are ill, but because they are not suitable for flights." —Konstantin Ernst, at the end of the filming of the series Gloomy River[19]

"我们选择了 20 个候选人，而 Yulia 没有被列入这个名单，因为她正在参与另一个项目的拍摄。结果，在医疗委员会的所有测试之后，所有这些女演员都没有通过选拔。不是因为她们生病，而是因为她们不适合飞行。" ——Konstantin Ernst，在拍摄系列剧《阴暗的河流》结束时说。

Aside from Peresild, Ernst offered the role to the Russian singer Polina Gagarina.[20]

除了 Peresild 之外，Ernst 还向俄罗斯歌手 Polina Gagarina 提供了这个角色。

On 14 May, the Interagency Committee approved the composition of the ISS main and alternate crews for the period 2021–2023.[21] Cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov was chosen to be the ship's commander, while Klim Shipenko and Peresild flew as spaceflight participants. The backup crew was cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev, cameraman Alexei Dudin and actress Alyona Mordovina,[18] Mordovina being the first woman to pass the cosmonaut screening since 2012.[14] Due to the allocation of seats on flights to the International Space Station, the flight of the director and actress necessitated rearranging mission lengths of the professional astronauts and cosmonauts, including extending the mission length of the on-orbit crew, U.S. astronaut Mark Vande Hei and his Russian cosmonaut counterparts, from six months to 1 year.[22]

2021年5月14日，联合机构委员会批准了国际空间站2021年至2023年期间的主要和备用机组成员。航天员安东·沙普列罗夫被选为船长，而克里姆·希彭科和佩雷西尔德则作为太空飞行参与者。备用机组成员包括航天员奥列格·阿尔捷缅夫、摄影师阿列克谢·杜丁和女演员阿琳娜·莫尔多维娜，莫尔多维娜是自2012年以来首位通过航天员选拔的女性。由于国际空间站航班座位的分配，导演和女演员的飞行需要重新安排专业宇航员和航天员的任务长度，包括将轨道上机组成员美国宇航员马克·范德海和他的俄罗斯航天员同事的任务长度从六个月延长到一年。

The crew members began training at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center on 24 May.[23] To prepare for filming, Shipenko trained intensively, dropping 15 kilograms (33 lb) of weight.[17] On 23 July, the prime crew participated in a four-hour simulation inside a Soyuz replica while wearing the Sokol space suit,[24] and on 28 July, the back-up crew completed the same exercise. According to backup commander Artemyev, the performance of the two backup spaceflight participants was outstanding. [citation needed]

机组成员于5月24日开始在尤里·加加林宇航员培训中心接受训练。为了准备拍摄，Shipenko进行了密集训练，减掉了15公斤的体重。7月23日，主要机组成员在一艘联盟号复制品内进行了为期四小时的模拟训练，穿着Sokol太空服。7月28日，备份机组完成了同样的训练。备份指挥官Artemyev表示，两名备份太空飞行参与者的表现非常出色。

The dress rehearsals for the movie took place after the scheduled spaceflight training each day.[25] On 30 July, the spacecraft had its pre-launch preparation started,[26] and on 31 August, the medical committee announced that both the main and reserve crew were healthy for spaceflight.[27]

电影的彩排在每天的计划航天训练之后进行。 [25] 7月30日，宇宙飞船开始进行发射前的准备工作， [26] 8月31日，医疗委员会宣布主要和备用机组人员都适合进行航天飞行。 [27]

On 12 September, First Channel aired a reality show called The Challenge: The First in Space, about the specifics of the selection and training of project participants.[18]

9月12日，第一频道播出了一档名为《挑战：太空第一人》的真人秀节目，讲述了项目参与者选拔和培训的具体细节。

In space 在太空中

A portion of the production took place on the International Space Station.

生产的一部分发生在国际空间站上。

"In space, there are a lot of nuances, the whole process is arranged differently. Therefore, many of the shots that we worked on the earth had to be rethought: to change the movements, the mise en scene."

在太空中，有很多细微之处，整个过程安排得不同。因此，我们在地球上工作的许多镜头不得不重新思考：改变动作，改变场景。

— Klim Shipenko — 克里姆·希彭科

Principal photography began on 5 October, when Shkaplerov, Peresild, and Shipenko flew to the ISS aboard the Soyuz-2.1a launch vehicle with the Soyuz MS-19 manned transport spacecraft from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Baikonur, Kazakhstan. While on the ISS, Klim Shipenko shot about 30 hours of material,[28] and also worked as director, art director, makeup artist, and production designer. Oleg Novitsky and Pyotr Dubrov appear in the film,[29] with Dubrov and Mark Vande Hei assisting in the production.[30] Shkaplerov will also appear in some scenes.[31]

2021 年 10 月 5 日，Shkaplerov、Peresild 和 Shipenko 乘坐联盟-2.1a 运载火箭和联盟 MS-19 载人运输飞船从哈萨克斯坦的拜科努尔航天发射场飞往国际空间站。在国际空间站期间，Klim Shipenko 拍摄了约 30 小时的素材，并担任导演、美术指导、化妆师和制片设计师。Oleg Novitsky 和 Pyotr Dubrov 在电影中出演，Dubrov 和 Mark Vande Hei 协助制作。Shkaplerov 也将在一些场景中出现。

Of all the footage filmed in space, about 30% was filmed in the Nauka module, another third was filmed in the Zvezda module, and the remaining 30% was shot on the rest of the ISS modules.[32] The footage shot in space became approximately 35 minutes of the final runtime of the film.[17]

在太空拍摄的所有镜头中，大约有30%是在Nauka模块拍摄的，另外三分之一是在Zvezda模块拍摄的，剩下的30%是在国际空间站其他模块拍摄的。在太空拍摄的镜头最终成为电影的大约35分钟的播放时间。

They left the ISS on 17 October aboard Soyuz MS-18, with Commander Oleg Novitsky.[33][34] After the successful landing of Soyuz MS-18, Dmitry Rogozin revealed that Ernst had paid Roscosmos for Shipenko and Peresild's seats.[35]

他们于 10 月 17 日乘坐联盟 MS-18 号飞船离开国际空间站，与指挥官奥列格·诺维茨基一起。 [33] [34] 成功着陆后，德米特里·罗戈津透露，恩斯特已经向俄罗斯航天局支付了船田和佩雷西尔德的座位费用。 [35]

Post-flight 飞行后

Miloš Biković (left) and Vladimir Mashkov (right), who play the lead male roles in Moscow in 2022

米洛什·比科维奇（左）和弗拉基米尔·马什科夫（右）在 2022 年的莫斯科中扮演男主角

The ground-based filming started in Moscow and the region of Moscow Oblast in mid-June 2022 and ended in October, with the last footage filmed at the Baikonur Cosmodrome. Some of the locations the crew filmed were the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center and the Voronovo sanatorium.[36] In addition, a pavilion was erected specifically for the film, imitating the RKA Mission Control Center of the Roscosmos State Corporation. There, Miloš Biković, the star of Klim Shipenko's 2019 film Serf, joined the cast.[37]

地面拍摄工作于 2022 年 6 月中旬在莫斯科和莫斯科州地区开始，并于 10 月结束，最后一段镜头在拜科努尔航天发射场拍摄。剧组拍摄的一些地点包括尤里·加加林宇航员训练中心和沃罗诺沃疗养院。 [36] 此外，还特别搭建了一个模拟俄罗斯航天国家公司 RKA 任务控制中心的场景。克里姆·舍彭科 2019 年电影《农奴》的主演米洛什·比科维奇也加入了演员阵容。 [37]

Reactions 反应

According to Dmitry Rogozin, the then-head of Roscosmos, the film was an "experiment to see if Roscosmos can prepare two ordinary people to fly in about 3 or 4 months".[38] Filming on the International Space Station was widely criticized by the Russian cosmonauts and space scientists for disrupting the Russian space program and misusing public money.[39][40]

根据当时的俄罗斯航天局局长德米特里·罗戈津的说法，这部电影是一个“实验，看看俄罗斯航天局是否能在大约3到4个月内训练两个普通人进行太空飞行”。国际空间站上的拍摄受到俄罗斯宇航员和太空科学家的广泛批评，认为这干扰了俄罗斯的太空计划并滥用了公共资金。

Sergei Krikalev, director of crewed programs at Roscosmos, reportedly lost his position by speaking out against the project,[41] but was reinstated ten days later following protests from cosmonauts on and off active duty.[40][23]

俄罗斯航天局有人载计划的主管谢尔盖·克里卡列夫据报道因公开反对该项目而失去职位，但在十天后由于在职和离职宇航员的抗议下被恢复。 [41] [40] [23]

Release 发布

Marketing 市场营销

On New Year's Eve, Channel One released the first musical number,[42] and the first teaser trailer was released on 1 January 2023.[43] The second trailer was released on 7 March 2023.[44][45]

在除夕夜，第一频道发布了第一首音乐曲目， [42] 并于 2023 年 1 月 1 日发布了第一支预告片。 [43] 第二支预告片于 2023 年 3 月 7 日发布。 [44] [45]

On 6 April 2023, the premiere took place on Okhotny Ryad Street, under the descent module of the Soyuz MS-18 spacecraft that was installed near Manezhnaya Square, Moscow.[46]

2023 年 4 月 6 日，首映式在莫斯科马尼日广场附近的奥赫特尼·里亚德街举行，地点是安装在那里的联盟 MS-18 飞船的返回舱下方。 [46]

Vostok carrier rocket from the Cosmos Pavilion No. 32

东方号运载火箭来自宇宙馆32号展馆。

On 10 April, the Cosmos Pavilion No. 32 at the Exhibition of Achievements of National Economy hosted the presentation and cancellation ceremony for a new postage stamp, part of the country's "Modern Russian Cinematography" series, depicting the movie's poster art. The 30-ruble stamp was issued the following Friday to coincide with the film's theatrical release and was accompanied by special postal cancellations at stations in Moscow, Star City and Korolyov in the Moscow Oblast, and elsewhere in Perm, Chelyabinsk and Baikonur.[47][48]

4月10日，国家经济成就展览的宇宙馆32号举办了一场新邮票的展示和取消仪式，该邮票是该国“现代俄罗斯电影”系列的一部分，展示了电影的海报艺术。这张30卢布的邮票于随后的星期五发行，以配合电影的院线上映，并在莫斯科、星城和莫斯科州的科罗廖夫以及佩尔姆、车里雅宾斯克和拜科努尔等地的邮局设有特别的邮戳。

To minimize competition with other films, foreign films such as The Super Mario Bros. Movie and Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves were temporarily removed from the cinema schedule during the rental period.[49]

为了减少与其他电影的竞争，像《超级马里奥兄弟电影》和《龙与地下城：盗贼之间的荣誉》这样的外国电影在租赁期间被暂时从电影院的放映计划中移除。 [49]

The tagline is "Become a star, by flying to the stars!"[50]

宣传语是“通过飞向星星成为一颗明星！” [50]

Theatrical 戏剧性的

The Challenge was released by Central Partnership, which is part of the Gazprom-Media holding in the Russian Federation. As reported by Vedomosti, Central Partnership has developed a new cinema format that contains technical characteristics similar to IMAX, called CosMAX.[51]

该挑战由俄罗斯联邦的 Gazprom-Media 控股公司旗下的 Central Partnership 发布。据 Vedomosti 报道，Central Partnership 开发了一种新的电影格式，其技术特点类似于 IMAX，称为 CosMAX。 [51]

The film had a special screening on 12 April 2023 at a solemn event for politicians dedicated to Cosmonautics Day at the State Kremlin Palace,[52][53] as well as its world premiere at the Karo 11 October cinema center on New Arbat Avenue in Moscow.[54] The film had its Serbian premiere on 20 April at the Cineplexx Galerija in Belgrade,[55] and it was scheduled to be released theatrically at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on 20 April 2023.

该电影于 2023 年 4 月 12 日在克里姆林宫国家宫殿举行的纪念宇航员日的庄重活动上进行了特别放映， [52] [53] 同时在莫斯科新阿尔巴特大街的 Karo 11 October 电影中心进行了全球首映。 [54] 该电影于 4 月 20 日在塞尔维亚贝尔格莱德的 Cineplexx Galerija 进行了首映， [55] 并计划于 2023 年 4 月 20 日在哈萨克斯坦的拜科努尔航天发射场和俄罗斯联邦上映。

The Challenge premiered on 2 May in a promotional video showing the cast and crew's impressions of space. They were joined by cosmonauts Dmitry Petelin, Sergey Prokopyev and Andrey Fedyaev, and seven other American and Emirati astronauts, all of whom had seen the film onboard the ISS.[56]

《挑战》在5月2日首播，推广视频中展示了演员和工作人员对太空的印象。他们与宇航员德米特里·佩特林、谢尔盖·普罗科皮耶夫和安德烈·费杰耶夫以及其他七名美国和阿联酋宇航员一起出演，他们都在国际空间站上观看了这部电影。

Home media 家庭媒体

The Challenge is scheduled to be released on digital rental in Russia on 1 September 2023, at the Start platform.[57]

挑战计划于 2023 年 9 月 1 日在俄罗斯的数字租赁平台 Start 上发布。 [57]

Reception 接待

The film's advertising budget was 91 million rubles, according to Mediaplus Group Russia.[58] The Challenge was promoted mainly on Channel One, and the state portal Gosuslugi also sent out letters advertising the film.[58]

根据 Mediaplus Group Russia 的数据，该电影的广告预算为 9100 万卢布。 [58] 挑战主要在第一频道进行宣传，国家门户网站 Gosuslugi 也发出了宣传该电影的信件。 [58]

Box office 票房

Having been released at the same time as the films John Wick: Chapter 4 and To Catch a Killer, in its first weekend, The Challenge took first place at the Russian box office and the CIS countries, earning a total box office revenue of 426 million rubles.[59] In its second weekend, the film again became the leader: as of 3 May 2023, the film's box office receipts reached 1 billion rubles.[11] On 7 August 2023, the film crossed the 2 billion rubles in 15 weeks, which is estimated to be the mark in Russia.[60][61]

在与电影《疾速追杀4》和《追捕杀手》同时上映的首个周末，电影《挑战》在俄罗斯和独联体国家的票房中获得了第一名，总票房收入达到4.26亿卢布。 [59] 在第二个周末，该片再次成为票房冠军：截至2023年5月3日，该片的票房收入达到了10亿卢布。 [11] 2023年8月7日，该片在15周内突破了20亿卢布的票房，这被认为是俄罗斯的一个里程碑。 [60] [61]

Critical response 评论反响

In Russian media, reception was mixed, leaning towards positive.[62] Film critics praised the visuals and Peresild's acting, but were divided about the melodramatic parts of the plot, supposed ideology, and how the movie deals with representation of women in space. Some critics took issue with the very idea of a costly space filming, while others praised it as an achievement. The Challenge was praised in reviews by Nezavisimaya Gazeta,[63] KinoPoisk,[64] and Lenta.ru, among others, while reviews in Kommersant[65] and Film.ru[66] were less enthusiastic, and Afisha was sharply critical.[67]

在俄罗斯媒体中，接待反应褒贬不一，但更偏向积极的一面。电影评论家赞扬了视觉效果和佩雷西尔德的表演，但对情节中的多愁善感部分、假定的意识形态以及电影如何处理太空中女性的形象存在分歧。一些评论家对昂贵的太空拍摄的想法表示质疑，而其他人则将其视为一项成就。《挑战》在《独立报》、《电影搜索》和《Lenta.ru》等评论中受到赞扬，而《商业人报》和《Film.ru》的评论则不太热情，而《Afisha》则持强烈批评态度。

Accolades 荣誉

Putin at award ceremonies in June 2023

2023年6月普京在颁奖仪式上

During Russia Day festivities in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall, President Vladimir Putin, on 12 June 2023, awarded Shipenko and Peresild a state prize in the field of literature and art for the film, though Shipenko could not attend due to work obligations.[68][69]

在2023年6月12日的俄罗斯国庆日庆祝活动中，弗拉基米尔·普京总统在克里姆林宫圣乔治大厅向希彭科和佩列西尔德颁发了一项文学艺术领域的国家奖，以表彰他们的电影作品。由于工作原因，希彭科无法出席。

In November 2023, the film was recognized as the best project in the nomination of the Event of the Year award by KinoReporter magazine.[70]

2023年11月，该电影被《KinoReporter》杂志评为年度事件奖的最佳项目。

Notes 笔记

He paid for the seats of the film crew

他为电影剧组的座位付费

See also 另请参阅

List of movies filmed in space

太空拍摄的电影列表

List of films featuring space stations

以太空站为特色的电影列表

Return from Orbit, a 1984 Soviet feature film for which material was shot in space

从轨道返回，这是一部 1984 年的苏联特色电影，其中的素材是在太空中拍摄的