EUROPE 欧洲

Reviews are in for Russia’s ‘The Challenge’ — the world’s first movie shot in space

俄罗斯的《挑战》——世界上第一部在太空拍摄的电影的评论已经出来了

The poster for "The Challenge"

Central Partnership International

中央合作国际

Tweet

推文

Email

电子邮件

Whatsapp

Copy link

Sign up for Semafor Flagship: The daily global news briefing you can trust. Read it now.

立即注册 Semafor Flagship：您可以信任的每日全球新闻简报。立即阅读。

Your Email address

Your Email address

Sign Up

In this article: 在本文中：

Title icon

The News 新闻

Title icon

Know More 了解更多

Title icon

The View From Hollywood 好莱坞的视角

Title iconTHE NEWS  Title icon 新闻

Russia’s “The Challenge,” the first feature-length film to be shot in space, was released in Russian theaters on Thursday, and the first reviews are coming in.

俄罗斯的《挑战》是第一部在太空拍摄的长片电影，于周四在俄罗斯影院上映，第一批评论已经出现。

Filmed in 2021, the movie follows a Russian doctor who has to go to space to perform surgery on an injured cosmonaut. Russian actress Yulia Peresild and director Klim Shipenko traveled to the International Space Station and filmed the movie over the course of 12 days alongside professional cosmonauts.

该电影于 2021 年拍摄，讲述了一位俄罗斯医生必须前往太空为一名受伤的宇航员进行手术的故事。俄罗斯女演员尤利娅·佩列西尔德和导演克里姆·希彭科与专业宇航员一起前往国际空间站，在 12 天的时间里拍摄了这部电影。

Title iconKNOW MORE  Title icon 了解更多

‘Perfectly done’ “完美完成”

AD

Komsomolskaya Pravda, a state-aligned outlet, gave the film a glowing review, calling it an “unobtrusive melodrama” with eye-popping outer space sequences.

《共青团真理报》，一个与国家相关的媒体，给予这部电影极高的评价，称其为“不显眼的情感剧”，并配以惊艳的外太空场景。

“On the whole, everything related to space is perfectly done in The Challenge - a luxurious smooth rocket takeoff in slow motion you will not be able to forget for a long time,” the review said.

“总的来说，与太空有关的一切在《挑战》中都被完美地呈现出来了 - 一次奢华而平稳的火箭慢动作起飞，你将无法在很长时间内忘记，”评论中写道。

Peresild’s blonde hair in the absence of gravity “turned into something like a strange crown,” KP wrote, and “will become one of the symbols of the new Russian cinema.”

KP 写道，佩雷西尔德在失重状态下的金发“变成了一种奇怪的皇冠”，“将成为新俄罗斯电影的象征之一。”

AD

Livelier in imagination 在想象中更加生动活泼

Film.ru gave the film a more mixed review, saying the script changes in tone when the film moves from Earth to space. The director “invites the audience to share genuine joy” in the corridors of the space station, but doesn’t fully live up to expectations.

《Film.ru》对这部电影给出了一份更加复杂的评论，称当电影从地球转移到太空时，剧本的情绪变化。导演在太空站的走廊中“邀请观众分享真正的喜悦”，但并没有完全达到期望。

“A movie shot in space really sounds like a dream come true. But do not forget that every fantasy is livelier, more colorful and magical in the imagination than in reality,” the review said. “The dream became a reality and lost much of its enigmatic charm and inviolable mystery.”

评论中说：“在太空中拍摄的电影听起来确实像是梦想成真。但不要忘记，每个幻想在想象中都比现实更加生动、多彩和神奇。”“梦想成为现实，失去了很多神秘的魅力和不可侵犯的神秘感。”

AD

A feminist message 一个女权主义的信息

“The Challenge” has a feminist message embedded into the space dramatics, wrote Russian outlet Vokrug TV, as Peresild’s character outperforms male candidates who are considered to embark on the mission.

“挑战”在太空戏剧中融入了女权主义的信息，俄罗斯媒体 Vokrug TV 写道，佩雷西尔德的角色胜过了被认为要开始这项任务的男性候选人。

It said the film was “discordant in structure,” and that flashback sequences during the most climactic parts of the movie “reduce the degree of the narrative, making it look like a TV series.”

文章称该电影的结构“不协调”，并且在电影最高潮部分的闪回场景“降低了叙事的程度，使其看起来像一部电视剧。”

Title iconTHE VIEW FROM HOLLYWOOD

Title icon 好莱坞的视角

The film was co-produced by state-controlled station Channel One Russia in partnership with the country’s space agency Roscomos, and was hailed as a national achievement.

这部电影是由国有电视台俄罗斯第一频道与该国航天局罗斯科斯莫斯合作制作的，被誉为国家的成就。

In releasing the film, Russia beat out Tom Cruise, who said in 2020 that he was working on a movie that would be shot in space, in collaboration with NASA and Elon Musk’s SpaceX.

在发布这部电影时，俄罗斯击败了汤姆·克鲁斯，他在 2020 年表示正在与 NASA 和埃隆·马斯克的 SpaceX 合作拍摄一部太空电影。

Similar to “The Challenge,” most of the story will take place on Earth before Cruise’s character ”needs to go up to space to save the day,” Donna Langley, chairman of Universal Film Entertainment Group, told the BBC last fall. Cruise is famous for doing his own daredevil stunts.

与《挑战》类似，大部分故事发生在地球上，然后克鲁斯的角色需要去太空拯救世界，环球电影娱乐集团主席唐娜·兰利在去年秋天告诉 BBC。克鲁斯以自己的特技动作而闻名。

The movie could still make history. Langley said the project involves Cruise “taking a rocket up to the space station and shooting and hopefully being the first civilian to do a spacewalk outside of the space station.”

这部电影可能会创造历史。兰利表示，这个项目涉及到克鲁斯“乘坐火箭前往空间站，并拍摄并希望成为第一个在空间站外进行太空行走的平民。”