1908］ Lessons Learned in Translating the Bible into Mandarin 603

Lessons Learned in Translating the Bible into

Mandarin

BY REV.C. W. MATEER, D.D.， LL.D.

translation requires the application of special principles in its execution. The leading translations into Chinese are the Win-li and the Mandarin. Each style has its advantages and its disadvantages, and the work of translation differs in important respects. I have been engaged to a greater or less extent for nearly sixteen years in the work of translating the Bible into Mandarin, having given to it some of the best thought of my life. 1 have learned some thiugs that I did not know when I began.

My purpose at present is to note a few of these things.

I. The Bible is a very dighioull book to translate;this for two reasons：

（1）. Many of its exalted, moral and spiritual idcas are not found in the Chinese mind, and of course there are no ready-made words to express them.

Either cumbrous circumlocations or unsatisfactory approximations must be substituted, or clse new terms must be made. Unfortunately previous translators have been cxcessively conservative, afraid to offend Chinese prejudice by the use of new terms, or new modes of expression.

mnistake.

This was probably a

At all events the time has now come when needful words should be devised and introduced. Every new science or art or faith must bring with it suitable words and terms for its adequate expression. The Chinese have quite ceased to resent such introductions into their language. On the contrary,the air is charged with them. It is clearly the part

of wisdom to introduce into the Bible such new terms and expressions as are most needed for the adequate expression of its ideas. They will very soon bccome known and understood， and the religious thought of China will be enriched by them.

（z）. The accurate reproduction of the original, which is re-

222 tbe talsation of tle Bitls, mkes the work spestially

Other books are translated with a considerable degree of freedom. Difficult words are modified, or paraphrased by some 

604

The Chinese Recorder

［November

convenient circumnlocution. This Hiberty makes translation comparatively easy and the preservation of a clear and forcible style quite practicable. The case is different with the Bible.

Previous translations have been somewhat free and paraphrastic， and in so far easy of execution. Now the demand of the native church is for a faithful and accurate rendering. The precise meaning of every word and sentence must be ascertained and then the resources of the language exhausted to express it with clearness and precision. The Bible is not to be taken merely for “ substance of doctrine，"'but as the inspired presentation of the truth. The words embody the truth, and so far as is possible, must neither be neglected nor tampered with. This makes the translation at once difficult and laborious.| Moreover, the more accurate and literal the translation, the more difhcult it is to achieve a good style. In fact, an accurate literal translation is impossible without sacrifcing something in style and idiom. This is abundantly evident in the English Bible, especially in the Revised, in which there are many things which would be at once condemned by accepted standards of English composition.

II. In the work of translation, Mandarin is more difficult to handle Ihan Wen-h.

At frst thought the very contrary would secm to be true， seeing that people who Jearn Chinese, learn to speak withcomparative fluency, but very few learn how to write Wen-li with any degrce of readiness. The following points may be noted ：-

（I）. Mandarin is always sailing between the Scylla of Wenli on the one hand and the charybdis of St-hea on the other. The boundary between H2n-li and Colloquial is very indefinite. Everything depends on the standpoint of the person. Some who have cultivated an acguaintance with Wn-li forms and phrases, and have aimed in their specch to please the ears of literary men, think that nothing is entitled to respectability as Mandarin that is not dignifed and embellished by a strong savor of book phraseology and style. Such men would translate the Bible so as to court the favor of those who look on the work from a purely literary standpoint. On the other hand， there are those who would not hesitate to bring in the slang of the street and the local unwritten forms in vogue in many places. To steer between the two extremes so as to escape both, is no easy task. It is worthy of special remark that

1908］ Lessons Learned in Translating the Bible into Mandarin 605 Primarily the danger of error lics chielly in the direction of high style. The pride of literary taste looks down on the language of common life and calls for something more cultured. History abundantly testifies to the power of this sentiment and points to the danger of yielding to it. When the qtestion of translations was before the Conference of 18g0, I asked Dr. Wright, the representative of B. and F. B. S.， what had been the! experience of the Bible Society in this matter. The question at once arrested his attention, and he replied with considerable cmphasis：“In every country having a written language, to which missionaries have gone, they have yielded to the literary pride of native scholars and made the style of the Bible too hgh， with the result that new translations had to be made into the language of common life; sometimes more than one before the proper level was reached. The Bible Society has spent many thousands of pounds in vain through this mistake of translators." The great mistake of the Middle Ages was in keeping the Bible in the language of the learned. with the Reformation came the translation of the Bible into the language of the people. It is a cardinal principle of Protestantism that the people should have the Bible in their ozen spoken language The literaty pride of Chinese scholars， with which unfortumately some foreigu missionaries sympathize, makes the danger of error in this direction all the greater.

（2）. Dialectic variations are oftentimes very embarrassing. Really Tung Hsing（通行）Mandarin has in fact but a limited range of words. It is everywhere in speech supplemented by numerous local forms. The diffculties of the situation must be encountered to be appreciated. There are not a few words and ideas that refuse translation into Tung Hsing Mandarin,which are readily expressed in more or less local Colloquial. In stch a case the decision should turn on whether the phrase in question is writeable by signihcant characters, and whether it prevails over several provinces and is extending its use. If $O， it may be accepted as current Mandarin. The difficulty in most cases is to find out with certainty how far a given phrase does prevail. Mandarin is bound to be enriched by many words and phrases heretofore esteemed by literary purists as too local for printing. The tendency of the present time is strongly in the direction of widening the range of Mandarin both in the direction of Wen-li and of Colloguial.

606

The Chinese Recorder

［November

（3）- Mandarin forms are more familiar, and at the same time more rigid, than those of Wen-li.

Wen-li as exhibited in the literary essays and philosophical disq uisitions of modern times, is a highly artifcial mosaic of crystallized forms and phrases, very difficult to write, and only possible to those who have had a long training. The attempt to render the Bible into this style by Dr. Medhurst, while an approximate successs as a literary production, is a failure as a translation of the Bible. As used at present in religious and scientific books, W2n-li is largely without any standard of style. It is supple to a degree. As handled by foreigners in their translations, it is turned about into every conceivable order to suit the exigencies of the case （to the disgust of the Chinese）， yet supposed to be Chinese. Many, perhaps most, are so unfamiliar with its proper standard that they accept as orthodox Wen-li,the jumble of words and phrases that is often palmed off in its name. With Mandarin the case is different. I1s idioms and the structare of its sentences are familiar to all and cannot be violated without immediate protest. Moreover, the structure of a Mandarin sentence is much more rigid than is the case with Wen-li. It will not yield to indefinite manipulation as Wen-li is supposed to do. Its idiomatic structure is too well understood to be violated with impunity. Its rigidity is often emnbarrassing, compelling the translator to go aroud, because he cannol go across. The fact that it resists manipulation at the pleasure of the writer, makes it diffcult to handle. This characteristic, however, contributes not a little to the greater precision of Mandarin.

（4）. The muititude of two-character combinations foumd in Mandarin raises a difficulty which scarcely exists in Wen-li. These combinations give an almost endless variety of shades of meaning which call for very carefnl discrimination in order to accuracy in translating. A couspicuous dcfeet in Giles' Dictionary is his failure to distinguish between two-character combinations having similar, but not the same, meaning- Under many words a list of two, three, four or more combinations are strung together and defined as one. Thus,under 官 we have 官員，官府，官曹，官吏，官長and官夫，all lumped together and defined as one. The fact is, each term differs somewhat from the others in meaning and uisC. A good dictionary should give the distinctive meanings as far as possible， albeit no definition can be so perfect as to enable a man to use

1908］ Lessons Learned in Translating the Bible into Mandarin 607 such approximate synonyms properly without much practical experience of their use. The ability to use them with discrimination constitutes one of the highest qualifications of a good translator. The Wen-hi is free from most of this diffculty， seeing it uses for the most part single characters whose meanings are more sharply distinguished.

This peculiarity of Mandarin introduces another ditfculty from which Weu-li is exempt. Cognate ideas are very apt to be expressed by combinations that have the same character as a constituent part of each. This makes it sound tautological to use two such forms in the same sentence or versc.| Thus we have 怒氣，您怒， 怒，烈怒and 惱怒；but when we have anger and wrath, or anger, wrath and indignation, in the same connection, what are we to do, secing these combinations with 怒 in them practically exhaust all the available terms ？ This difhiculty is also in cvidence when translating lists or summaries of virtues or vices in which cognate terms will naturally occur. Thus we have fornication, adultery, lasciviousness, uncleanness ；

and factions, divisions, parties ; and long-suffering,gentlencss， goodness, meekness. In all stch cases, and they are very merous, there is serious difficulty in fnding terms that do not interfere. On this accotnt, unustal and often more or less inaccurate combinations are forced into use. It is hardly necessary to say that Wen-li encounters no such dithiculty, as the dictionary usually supplies a suffcient number of single characters to meet the emergency.

These reasons fully justify the affrmation that as a medium for translating the Bible, Mandarin is more diffcult to handle than Wen-l.

III. In translating the Bible there is a manifest lendency to exaggerate, prompted, no donbt, by an unconscious desire to emphasize the truths of the Bible. Some things are magnified and some are mninimized. The good are made a little better and the bad a little worse. If any doubt this, let him read over a numnber of chapters of the Mandarin New Testatent （either Northern or Southern）， very carefully comparing word for word with the English, which is for the most part entirely colorless. Iove is fairly translated by 愛， but there is a constant tendency to substitute for it such combinations as 敬愛，疼愛， 慈愛，親愛，愛浆. Hate is well expressed by 恨or惧惡，but these are often turned into 怨恨，忿恨，忌恨. Grace or favor

i5 恩 or 恩典，but is often intensifed into 鸿恩，恩寵，恩葱， and so of many others. A conspicuous illustration is 兒惡 in the Iord's Prayer. The Chinese language abounds to a rematkable degree in the use of terms to intensify or qualify the leading word. On this account it lends itself very easily and naturally to the tendency referred to. In fact it is often diffcult to avoid the error of saying too much. Constant care is required on the part of the translator, lest he yield to the temptation to use a forcible combination that says too mnuch.

The Bible needs no toning up nor toning down ; it is right as it is, and as far as possible should be so translated.

IV. Eristing translations rezeal a distinc! disposition to adapl the Bible to the Chinese in the process of translating it.

Things that are obscure are made plain by paraphrase or substitution. Things that might offend prejudice are modified. Metaphors and personifcations not familiar to the Chinese are expanded into comparisons. Phrases and forms of speech growing out of the customs of Biblical times are tured about into what it is supposed the Chinese would now say in like circumstances. Illustrations of these various points could readily be given, but perhaps it is not best to give them. This tendency has abated in recent years, but still exists. * It is wrong in principle, and should be entirely and conscientiously avoided. The Bible does not need any doctoring at the hands of translators. The Chinese church are entitled to have the Bible just as il is in a strictly faithful and acctrate translation. This they demand of us who translate it for them. They do not want to know what the writers would have said if they had been Chinese, but what they actually did say. This is the manner in which the Chimese who have learned English are now translating Chimese books into their own language， and this is very evidently the spirit of the times. The English Bible, especially the Revised Version, is a monument of careful and accurate translation. Translators into Chinese cannot do better than follow in the same line. I have a mumber of times heard students when using commentaries, or hearing lectures on various portions of Scripture, express their surprise and dissatisfaction that the Bible had not been more accurately

* Somc of tis disposition to adopt is, no doubt, due to_the fact that tie first translations were］ made Iargely

Christianity to those who

were ignorant of it.

to introduce

The case is different now. The demand

time is for a Bible for the Christian church.

of the present

were ignorant of it. The case is diflerent now. The demand of the present time is ior a Bible for the Christian church.

1908］ The Training and Qualifications of the Literary Worker 609 translated. 1 have known Chinese preachers when quoting a text which had a marginalreading, saying that the original says so and so, to remark with strong disapproval： "If the original says so, why not translate it so and be done with it？” 0n otle occasion in out commnittee, when the question was about giving a metaphor straight, or paraphrasing into a comparison， one of our litetaty helpers said with vigorots emphasis：'Do you suppose that we Chinese cannot understand and appreciate a metaphor ? Our books are full of them and new ones are welcome." If we do not give the Chinese the Bible as il is， they will condemn us, and before long will do the work for themselves.

In conclusion, it is worthy of rematk that no owe man can make a satisfactory translation of the Bible. There are limitations to every man's knowledge of truth and of language. Every mnan's judgment is warped in some particnlar. Every mnan's vision is distorted in sote of its aspects， This is a lessou we have been learning day by day and are still learniug If any man wishes to find out his limitations in these respects let him join a translating committee.