 The increasing number of Chinese citizens that are leaving the country trying to reach America. The stats is really staggering. Our plan has always been that we would fly to Ecuador and then we would start to travel with them by land into Colombia. And then from Colombia, through the Darien Gap, we would enter Panama. And then the idea was to then pick it up from Mexico, see how they make across that sort of final step, the most difficult step, in order to reach the U.S. I've spotted about five or six Chinese people. That's the dad with the baby. That's them. There they are. Hands off the bridge. It's too dangerous. We cannot stop here? Did you get a shot of them? It's an area... That economy is built on the trafficking of migrants. And they are very sensitive of having their operations exposed. I never experienced danger in any of my previous productions before. We felt like there's always people watching us wherever we go, and we need to be more careful with what we're doing in the public. This is all private land, by the way. But not to worry about it. To be honest, when I saw the brief of this documentary, I had a feeling that it's not going to happen. Because there was so much unknowns. They're just right there! No way! Look. Música I'm going to have to admit that I probably spend an embarrassing amount of time each day on Chinese short video apps. of time each day on Chinese short video apps. From mid to late 2022, I started seeing these videos of Chinese people crossing what appears to be a dense tropical jungle alongside with a vast number of South Americans. They hashtagged it, either Zhou Xian, walk the line, and that really piqued my interest. I think what fundamentally changed about China over the past few years, it's no longer that rising optimistic country and the population. and the population. And I think the way we did it, because we travel with them, we were able to capture all of these conflicts and emotions and a change of minds in real time. In that aspect, I think you do have a more realistic portrayal of what the journey is like. There has not been existing sort of reports about it to an extent that you will find on any other issue. But to the extent that it wasn't so difficult for us is because I have access to the same social media apps that they use. We are now on this boat. It's 6 o'clock. We will be entering Yulin soon. It's all mud. It's very dangerous. It's a water-canceling river. We were able to sort of access this information the same way the migrants would. I don't know, I've been walking for more than 11 hours. I can't walk. I really can't walk. After learning about how dangerous the trip is, how concerned about safety were you? Oh no, I just thought it was super exciting. There are people who run towards the fire and the people who run away from it, right? All of us chose to do what we do. We're the type of people who would run towards it. You're okay with been filmed? My team leader called me and said, Shan, there's a project that is happening in South America. But he said, before you say yes, I'm going to send you some clips, look at it and tell me if you're going to say yes tomorrow. So I went home and these were clips on the Darien Gap. People crossing and it was pretty horrifying, you know, people dying, there's like dead bodies and snakes. When I thought about South America, pretty horrifying, you know, people dying. There's like dead bodies and snakes. When I thought about South America, narcos from Netflix came to mind. Straight away in my head, it's like, cartel, drug, drug lord, you know? I very quickly read up on it. And the first things that came up on my newsfeed were the ongoing political instability problems in Ecuador. There was a political assassination. There were car bombs that went off in the capital. And then reality really came crashing in like, wow, this is no joke, you know, this is narcos in real life. came crashing in like, wow, this is no joke, you know? This is narcos in real life. And it is true to an extent, there's a lot of crime there. Kidnapping, murder, robbery. But at the same time, it's interesting. I never experienced danger in any of my previous productions before. I couldn't say no to an adventure of a lifetime. And the next day i said yes my name's adnan nazar um i'm the security consultant for the trip that we did for walk the line so i was a military medic in the British Army for 11 years. During that time, I had four operational tours, Bosnia, Kosovo, and I was a platoon commander for two tours of Iraq. Suspicious behavior. You know, a lot of the times when I was working in Iraq, somebody would step forward and they would throw a grenade. The decision was made that I would come in at the very beginning, starting with pre-deployment training here in country, teaching the team a little bit about jungle survival, how to manage yourself, what kit and equipment to take, routes had to be approved, security background checks on people working with us. I was told the porters can only take 25. What happens if they run off? OK, what happens if I pull this poor lad? It was a lot to take in. And it was a bit overwhelming. He was talking about things like what to do if you get kidnapped. What to do when you meet someone with poor gun discipline. It's like, what? Throughout the training, in my mind, I was just like, what am I getting myself into? And when we're tightening it, it's going to come underneath, OK? So my main concern was to deliver the jungle aspect. We were going to have a five-day journey through the Darien Gap. Take it slow. Yeah, not too slow. Slow, slow, slow. Speed up. So it's an extra layer for you at night. So things like how to set up your tent. Are you going to set it up in an area that could be a flash flood, first aid? You know, what happens if the security guy gets hurt? This is activated. It will ping and send a signal of we are and if we have an emergency we've got an SOS button to let them know we need a bit of support. Our editor-in-chief, he said that his number one priority is our safety. I'm in a good space, there's security, there's a company, people are watching over me. It was a relief really to know that we could at least offload some of the burdens and focus more on our work. You've got a lot of cartel-controlled areas. A lot of drugs are moved through those areas. So banditry, you know, was a big one. Everything you have and you see in front of you is kit and equipment you need. There's no luxury items in there. We try to bring more batteries since we can't charge the batteries in the jungle. And for me, I try to minimise my equipment, like bringing a smaller mixer and a smaller boom pole. I have to have all the equipment on me all the time. So it all had to fit into a backpack. So Shan had a good idea before we left for our trip, which is to go for practice hikes together as a team. And in urban Singapore, the closest thing we could find was Maguichi Reservoir. So we loaded our bags with the kind of the same weight what we're going to carry on those days. We did some pieces to camera, film us walking. Just to do some test shots, sort of have a taste of what it would be like in the Darien Gap. I don't like walking long distance, to be honest. We hiked through the MacRitchie and all the way to Bukit Timahil. I think it's very shag. Yeah. How are you feeling? Not bad. I cannot imagine if there's four days to go. Are you going to sleep on a hammock? Yeah. I was very fortunate to have a good team with me, very proactive, excited about the trip, but also hungry for the knowledge and training to prepare for what lay ahead. This is what they call nice weather. It's good, isn't it? It was interesting how the schedule was planned. We started in San Diego, which was actually the end of the journey. This is the first time I've seen the border. It was really intimidating. It was about 20,30 feet high steel wall. You will see miles and miles of wall then there will be a small gap. Coming again. People are coming from. We saw a group of people crossing the wall right in front of us. And to our surprise, it was pretty easy for them to cross, you know? Like, that's a small opening, so everyone just like walked through it and you made it in the US now. China! China! That was also the first time we came into direct contact with the Chinese migrants who's just made it and to hear them tell their stories and they were so open and honest about it. No jackets, no hoodies. Is it OK? No, it's a jacket, is it? I think I got very, very emotional afterwards, particularly because of this migrant. And this guy, who's just wearing nothing inside but a puffer jacket on the outside, and he was holding the passport in front of him, and the Border Patrol officer was taking a photo. And I just felt in that moment what was going across his mind. Was this humiliation really worth it? What put you in this place? And what was going across his mind? Was this humiliation really worth it? What put you in this place that sort of gave me a perspective I didn't have before, that they're all somebody's mom, dad, daughter, son, siblings. And I think that, again, goes to challenge my idea of what I thought I know about my country and my people. What has to happen for these people to be here, to be willing to go through this. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to be the first to welcome you to Quito, Ecuador. The local time here is approximately 1.07. Why Ecuador? It's because that's really the only country in the Americas that allows Chinese passport holders to enter visa-free. So that had to be their starting point. And then they sort of make it step by step towards the US. So our plan has always been that we would fly to Ecuador cold without knowing anyone, just being able to identify key locations. And we try to meet them there, talk to them, try to sign up for the idea. Paul was in charge of the local security, and he just went on and on about all the bad things that happened. Ecuador is mainly just go through drug conflict. You always hear very early in the morning, very late that someone got kidnapped. It's not that safe. But when you looked around, it looked like any other city. That's when I realized, okay, I have to be, I cannot let my guard down. We've just seen in the news recently how things changed very quickly there. The country literally went from being peaceful to like a coup was going on overnight. Dynamics change very, very quickly. Keto! So the plan was for me and Wei Tu to check in at the Chinese guesthouse and stay there for the duration of our time in Keto. The owner was incredibly generous, for no good reason at all. I hadn't met her. I just called her on the phone and she said, if you want to come hang out and talk to people, approach them. And if they're willing to be filmed, it's not my business to stop you. So Jonathan and I moved to the guesthouse. Jonathan and I moved to the guesthouse. As soon as we checked in, and the people in the guesthouse knew that we were journalists, people were tense. They were like, why are there journalists here? It's not lawful what they're doing. But what Wei Tu did, which I thought was ingenious, was on my trip up to Quito, she told me to get barbeque sliced pork, also known as bak kwa, as gifts. And as soon as I brought out the bak kwa, it was like we were their long-lost family and friends. They were like, oh, yes, bak kwa! Talk to me, what do you need? And immediately people opened up like that. It's not people are easy to buy off, but people appreciate a little bit of warmth and generosity from a stranger. Just on that first night alone, appreciate a little bit of warmth and generosity from a stranger. Just on that first night alone, she managed to get four people on board to be on our show. The profiles that opened up to us, one was a chef.看到了鸟了你看到吗来 看着了那是他的背景这看到了吗那是我那背景你啥给我钱对我挣啥干啥你啥东西你少戴眼镜你都开戴眼镜你说你喜欢你穿衣服的你穿啥那么多的真的多少钱你钱买一件一般的两个鸟一般美金呢对啊一个月嗯一般的美金你知道多看完了还是开大货车 How much is it? It's half a dollar. A month? You know how expensive it is? He's driving a big car. I've seen it. He's driving a big car. Local college graduates don't have such high salaries. He just had this idea. Somebody must have told him, if you become a truck driver, it's 10,000 US dollars. In the US, that was why he was making the trip. It does give you this unsettling feeling that a lot of them were getting into something they didn't understand, they would later come to regret. KAMU MENINGGAL Itu nombor nombor? Ya. Tukar. Tukar. Tukar. Perkara itu berubah secara berlalu. Kami berada di antara perhubungan bus. Token. Token. Token. Things were changing constantly. So we end up in a bus interchange, and they were saying, you need a permit. But we're already there, so what do I do? I just hope for the best and, you know, keep my equipment simple, kind of act like a tourist and film them. It's odd, you know, there's two Chinese profiles and an Indian guy following them. I'm hoping they think I an Indian guy following them. I'm hoping they think I'm some YouTuber following them. When they got to the bus station, our crew joined the family on the coach and I followed in a minibus. So once that journey started, I was very, very surprised to see how fast these coaches were traveling. And we're not talking about a straight motorway. These were mountainous roads with sharp bends, with large drops. The coach that we were following were taking these turnings at phenomenal speeds. And you could see the lean on these coaches. We were struggling to keep up but I was thinking then, do I make the decision to pull out in front of the coach, stop the coach, remove my team or is this just how fast all the coaches travel? So once we got to the Ecuador-Colombia border crossing, there's a lot of people there, there's a lot of transactions taking place. Our profiles, they got through the border in about five minutes. All they had to do was buy a ticket from a smuggler, and he brought them across and they managed to get a cab. So for us, we obviously had to cross through legal means. The border guards had never heard of the Singaporean passport because I don't imagine many Singaporeans making that land crossing between Ecuador and Colombia. Me and Fadli got hold up for nearly about two hours because they had, firstly, they had issues with our names. Then they brought superiors and other immigration officers down. Taking our thumbprint and also like being a scan of our people, you know, like that never happened to me before. Pretty intense actually. After we crossed the border into Colombia, Sean, the cameraman, myself, and our two profiles jumped into a cab to take us to Pasto, which is the closest airport which would then fly us to the north of Colombia for the next leg of our journey. On the way to Pasto, the taxi just veered off into a gated compound. At that point, I was still trying to get a 3G signal on my phone. So I couldn't even share my location with Nas, our security advisor. And the taxi driver gestured to us that he needed me to take our passports and followed him into the building. So remember this is the point where we had lost contact with the rest of the team. They had no GPS coordinates or whatever and all we could do was go with the flow. and all we could do was go with the flow. When I was walking into the building, my mind was just racing. Am I going to be detained here? Shan and the profile is going to be okay? We went up the flight of stairs, they took our passports, entered our information, asked for some money, which we had no choice but to give. And then the person handed the taxi driver a slip of paper....beritahu kita untuk menerima duit yang kami tak boleh berikan. Kemudian orang itu menerima sebuah kertas daripada pengawal teksi. Saya agak risau. Saya berharap Jonathan akan keluar. Dia keluar selepas 10 minit. Saya berkata, okey, mari kita pergi. Saya tak tahu kenapa kami berada di sana. Apa yang berlaku? Ada kebenaran untuk berjalan ke kota. I actually don't even know why we were there, what was happening. So it was some kind of a permission to drive through the city. But the way it happened, it was pretty scary. We got incredibly worried after that one day of shoot with Uncle Wong and Auntie Lan on their trip from Quito to Pasto, because they were so quiet. They said nothing. But at the transit airport, Pogata Airport, we met this family from China, Chengdu. Mom, Dad, Lucy. from China, Chengdu, mom, dad, Lucy. So obedient. In a way, they're quite different from the other migrants. Bye-bye. See you. They're extremely warm, chatty, outgoing people. You don't get a lot of these people in China. And they're extremely trusting people. They open up in no time. Okay. Okay. extremely trusting people, they open up in no time. No, waifu, number one. Number two. Kiddo. They have this beautiful relationship between the two parents that evolved over time. And then gradually they took over the show. They became our main profiles and they really just carried it all the way through. When we were on the bus to Nekokli after the flight, the fixer who has access to the Darien Gap, he just left a voice message. Carlos has just left me a message and said, the guy who runs the area has told his contact that he doesn't want to see any journalist on any route not caretto not cover gonna not a kandi by that time had a crew of eight people traveling halfway around the world and he called me just to ask whether he should still turn up. I've told him to come anyway. You still go ahead with the interviews? Just proceed as go-able. Okay. I should at least get him to Nekokli, get him to go see these people in person and see if, you know, he could, we could still stand a chance. So it was it was yeah it was a bit of a shock so nikakli really is the jump off point for migrants in order to enter the darien they want to be arrested they want to be mentally prepared and then they need to buy a lot of stuff for that jungle crossing. So a lot of the shops were dedicated to selling things that the migrants would need in the Daring Gap. Portable stores, tents, tarps, hiking boots, the sulphur powder that you are supposed to put around your tent to prevent snakes from entering. They go to a shop, they buy food, and the next minute they cross over, they are buying some gear. It was a very chaotic moment for us. We were constantly on the move. It was pretty tough for me. At this point, you know, there was only me as one main cameraman. And I had to get the producer, Jonathan, he had to jump in and help me get shots. So everybody had to be hands on deck. For me, I have to carry my boom and we are definitely attracting attention. It's an area, that economy is built on the trafficking of migrants. It's a lot of money brought into that area and they are very sensitive of having their operations exposed. We'd be walking through an area, you'd see a male, 20 years old, up to about 40 years old. They'd be straight onto their phones, looking at us, pointing, sending feedback to whoever their bosses are. We stopped at one point, didn't we, and we had a little chat and say, we've got to lower our profile. We're standing out, you know, which you're going to with a boom mic and other bits of equipment. We had to distance ourselves from the families as well, in the sense that we were jeopardizing their opportunity to get transport. I'm having a shot here, please. And then I looked at what we have filmed so far, and I was confident we got a story here. We just have to work around, you know. We sat down with the producer and I said, let's keep going, you know, let's try to catch them on the sort of early next day in the morning. And, you know, I didn't, by that point, I sort of, I got over the emotional part of it, the worry and anxiety. Partly also because it took so long. The family was making the trip so quickly. I knew even if we went in, we would never call them. I never called out. We immediately made plans to fly to Panama City and drive down to the border with the Darien province. and drive down to the border with the Darien province. So the tricky thing about Panama is that you need a permit to access what they call migrant reception centers at the exit of the Darien. The net result was in there, we didn't have the permit. We waited for days, we were hoping for it, we didn't have it, and then that was that. So the best we could do after talking to the locals was to send myself, our fixer, and one security advisor on a long boat from Puerto Limon, which is where the migrants would end their Daring Gap journey, upriver, as far as the radio could get signal with base at the port. Coming. Migrants. The boats are coming in now. Third is Chinese. Fourth one coming now. Stand by. It's Chinese as well. And suddenly I heard, Xie Feng Hong! Xie Feng Hong! Ia nama saya dalam bahasa Cina. Kali terakhir saya mendengar nama itu adalah di sekolah kelas. Saya mencuba dan ia adalah profil. Ia merupakan pengalaman yang paling menakjubkan. Kedua-dua kapal adalah keluarga kami. Saya akan menyebut nama saya. Ya. The fourth boat is our family. He's shouting my name. Yeah. The fourth boat is our family. What? The fourth boat is our family. There was like a 15 minutes gap. So the moment he saw them, he signaled me. So that's when I took off the drone, tried to catch them coming in. These boats were really fast. So by the time I'm landing the drone, the boats were already in the jetty. I gave the controller to NAS, took my camera, ran to the area where they were coming off, and with Weidu, we catch them coming off the boat. That was an exhilarating moment, really, it was. Seeing all of them make the trip safe and sound. That was the first time we saw them after about a week. And I was worried about how they were coping, whether they were healthy and this. But the first thing they said to us was, where we brought your sunglasses? Oh, my God. Peace be with you. Peace be with you. And it just speaks volumes about the type of people they are. They radiate kindness and love and try to really take care of other people. So now the sunglasses rests on my shelf with a little tag, Survivor of the Darien Gap.哥倫比亞從卡雷托海灘截至地獄魔術前一天晚上聽說失蹤了27個人27個人失蹤了失蹤了什麼事情失蹤了就是穿白了所以你覺得後面的人你會跟他們講不要來了已經說了對不管為了什麼目標打死生命我在山上看見屍體山上有屍體你們走的那條線都有屍體我看見他們用那個帳篷然後帳篷是布帳篷的布蓋身上 The How these migrants recover from that experience, the type of resilience that they have is quite amazing. We were in a slightly odd situation that we are not vested in them arriving in the US. That's not what we were doing, and that's not what this documentary is about. We didn't want them to either die in an accident or get mugged or get assaulted or worse. And that's a balance we had to keep to for professional and ethical reasons. A lot of times we couldn't offer them any help, even though we were in a position to help, it was emotionally difficult. I'm a little worried. I'm a little worried. There we go. We're to the north of the bridge, where we've been told it's safe for us to hang around. South of the bridge is smuggler-controlled territory. In Tabachula, we had an interview with a smuggler who has this sort of door-to-door service. He would take you from southern Mexico to wherever you want to be in the United States for 9,000 US dollars. So we found a hotel which we could go in and sit up and he could go in and we gave him assurances that his face will not be shown, his voice will be distorted. Myself and the rest of the team managed to go there, do a full recce. If he's not willing to be mic'd up, then Fabio will have to be in it. I mean, yes, he is. We had a team discussion, team briefing, like who to be in the room and who not to be. So it's only a few of us in the room. Try and stick to the script as questions are discussed. The code, the word we're going to use from myself and the team, if we need to go, which means stop what you're doing, we're leaving. No more questions or nothing, we're at the door. Pineapple? Guacamole. how about that? Guacamole. Guacamole. Guacamole. Where it would be guacamole. If you say something dangerous, at any moment, you say guacamole, nobody will say anything, we're leaving. Okay. Okay. It's a word of security. Look, you enter to the door, we enter, you enter to the door, you pass the reception without talking to anyone, you take right, and the first door on the door. We enter. We enter to the door. You pass the reception without talking to anyone. You take right and the first door on the right. He said, if they don't listen, I have no choice. I beat them up. He said, you must have heard that we rape women. We don't rape women. to have a better place in the car, to sleep in a room with only women, and that's precisely why they feel more protected. And I thought that was heavy, just thinking about how already it's such a difficult experience, but specifically for women. It was so difficult for the migrants to get out of Tapachula. They made plans, the plans were frustrated, they were set back. In the end we decided we're just going to go to northern Mexico, the city called Tijuana, on a border with California, and we will wait. We will just wait for them to arrive. When we flew into Tijuana, the airport, I have a Hong Kong passport, but it says Chinese Hong Kong passport with a Chinese national emblem on it. I didn't need a visa to go to Mexico. It was a domestic flight, but there was passport control. And they were just pulling everybody with a Chinese passport. You go sit there, you go sit there. So we got pulled into this room, like full of Chinese migrants. They were told to just sit there, we'll come back to you. And then of course they looked at our passports with the visa stamps, they had to let us go, so they had to call us out in front of everybody. And as we were making our way across the room, everybody was like, which smuggler to choose? How much money to choose? We moved to the east border to the north border. In Tijuana, what we had hoped to do was to catch the group of migrants we had been following actually crossing the border. No, on my map, it goes all the way. This goes all the way. So then eventually we just decided, why don't we just go stay out there? So our local fixer, Gabby, who is very experienced on that border, went with us. For example, if they think we are with families, for sure they get mad because they can confuse and think we are trafficking people, families, like a competition. It's just another kilometre down that way. My concern on the day was, who are going to be coming down these tracks? We'd seen early on in the trip from the other side of the wall, and remembering these people are all armed. Also, it puts us in a vulnerable position as well. Remember, we're on foot. Again, we're not armed. There's two Chinese people there. I already see. Let me clear first. This is it. And we're going to an area and where we want to covertly film without causing them any reason to panic or to suspect us of exposing their operation. From a security aspect, the decision was made quite early once we got to the wall and the gap where the people actually crossed through that should anything happen, that we would cross into the American side. Three more steps. You're in America. And we waited there for about three, four hours, really, but no migrants came. They waited there for about three, four hours, really, but no migrants came. A guy rode a motorbike, had a look, left. Somebody who drove a SUV came, had a look, and left. And eventually Gabby said, you know, maybe this is a self-defeating mission, because clearly these people were sent by the smugglers to come and check on us. They're watchers. They know you're here. They can't figure out who you are. That's why they're not sending the migrants across. So, mom, dad and Lucy are currently still in Los Angeles. Lucy has enrolled in a local high school. I saw from the photos mom posted, she got 100 on her math exam. enrolled in a local high school. I saw some of the photos mom posted. She got a hundred on her math exam, as you would expect a Chinese child to do. And mom and dad are both working. Mom, she was the chef at some sort of ramen restaurant. So dad mostly takes care of things at home, do the chores, drive Lucy to school. Uncle Wang is working at a Chinese restaurant in Texas. Jia worked as a cook in China, so he's got a job cooking at a barbecue restaurant somewhere in New Jersey. Chef is also cooking. Chef isn't making good money, you know, because it's a skilled job. He said he's making 6,000 US a month. So he's probably the best paid among the lot. Auntie Lan is working in Texas, I believe. I think fortunately, in the end, bad things don't happen, because otherwise it would have been so much worse for all of us emotionally and psychologically. Definitely an eye-opening for me. It made me more confident. Despite the lack of sleep, rest, we still managed to do our thing as a team. These migrants who took on this journey are so incredibly resilient and it made a lot of my problems that I face in my everyday life feel so insignificant. And the team. I was among a really fantastic, amazing crew and team players. I enjoyed it. I think we had some good fun off camera. The morale was good. I learned a bit of Singlish. Everybody's, you know, La. It's going to be good La. I think this project was unique and it's a huge undertaking. I just felt it's such a strong story. It reveals so much about the times and I'm happy about that..