请翻译成中文，按照好中文的风格。

I arrived at Gastons (so the Knock's house was called) on a Saturday, and he announced that we would begin Homer on Monday. I explained that I had never read a word in any dialect but the Attic, assuming that when he knew this he would approach Homer through some preliminary lessons on the Epic language. He replied merely with a sound very frequent in his conversation which I can only spell "Huh." I found this rather disquieting; and I woke on Monday saying to myself, "Now for Homer. Golly!" The name struck awe into my soul. At nine o'clock we sat down to work in the little upstairs study which soon became so familiar to me. It contained a sofa (on which we sat side by side when he was working with me), a table and chair (which I used when I was alone), a bookcase, a gas stove, and a framed photograph of Mr. Gladstone. We opened our books at ILIAD, Book I. Without a word of introduction Knock read aloud the first twenty lines or so in the "new" pronunciation, which I had never heard before. Like Smewgy, he was a chanter; less mellow in voice, yet his full gutturals and rolling R's and more varied vowels seemed to suit the bronze-age epic as well as Smewgy's honey tongue had suited Horace. For Kirk,

93

even after years of residence in England, spoke the purest Ulster. He then translated, with a few, a very few explanations, about a hundred lines. I had never seen a classical author taken in such large gulps before. When he had finished he handed me over Crusius' LEXICON and, having told me to go through again as much as I could of what he had done, left the room. It seems an odd method of teaching, but it worked. At first I could travel only a very short way along the trail he had blazed, but every day I could travel further. Presently I could travel the whole way. Then I could go a line or two beyond his furthest North. Then it became a kind of game to see how far beyond. He appeared at this stage to value speed more than absolute accuracy. The great gain was that I very soon became able to understand a great deal without (even mentally) translating it; I was beginning to think in Greek. That is the great Rubicon to cross in learning any language. Those in whom the Greek word lives only while they are hunting for it in the lexicon, and who then substitute the English word for it, are not reading the Greek at all; they are only solving a puzzle. The very formula, "NAUS means a ship," is wrong. NAUS and SHIP both mean a thing, they do not mean one another. Behind NAUS, as behind NAVIS or NACA, we want to have a picture of a dark, slender mass with sail or oars, climbing the ridges, with no officious English word intruding.

我在星期六抵达了加斯顿家（诺克家的名字），他宣布我们将从星期一开始学习荷马。我解释说，我从未读过除阿提卡方言以外的任何方言，以为他会先给我上几节关于史诗语言的课。结果他只是发出一种很常见于他谈话中的声音，我只能拼写为“嗯”。这让我感到有些不安；星期一早上我醒来说：“现在开始学荷马了。天啊！”这个名字让我心生敬畏。九点钟，我们在楼上的小书房坐下来开始工作，这个小书房很快就变得对我非常熟悉了。里面有一张沙发（我们并肩坐在上面工作时用），一张桌子和一把椅子（我独自使用时用），一个书架，一个煤气炉，还有一张装裱好的格莱斯顿先生的照片。我们翻开《伊利亚特》第一卷。没有任何介绍，诺克用“新”发音大声读了大约前二十行，我从未听过这种发音。像斯莫吉一样，他是个吟唱者；声音不如斯莫吉柔和，但他饱满的喉音、滚动的R音和更多变的元音似乎与青铜时代的史诗一样适合，就像斯莫吉的甜美嗓音适合贺拉斯一样。柯克，即使在英国居住多年，仍然说着最纯正的阿尔斯特口音。他随后翻译了大约一百行，并进行了少量的解释。这么大量地阅读古典作家，我以前从未见过。他读完后，把克鲁修斯的《词典》递给我，让我尽可能多地再读一遍他读过的内容，然后离开了房间。这种教学方法看似奇怪，但很有效。起初，我只能走很短的一段路，但每天我都能走得更远。不久后，我就能走完全程。然后，我还能走过他最远的北方线几行。接着，这成了一种游戏，看看我能走多远。他在这个阶段似乎更重视速度而非绝对准确性。最大的收获是，我很快就能在不（甚至在心里）翻译的情况下理解很多内容；我开始用希腊语思考了。这是学习任何语言的重大飞跃。那些在词典中找词时希腊词才存在于他们脑海中的人，然后用英语词替代它们，根本不是在阅读希腊语；他们只是在解谜。那句“NAUS 意思是船”的公式是错误的。NAUS和SHIP都指代某个事物，它们彼此并不代表。我们希望在NAUS背后，就像在NAVIS或NACA背后，有一幅暗色、纤细的船只带着帆或桨在海浪上攀爬的画面，而不是让任何多余的英文词打扰我们。