and to the angel of the church in smyrna write:

the first and the last, who was dead, and has come to life ,says this:

i know your tribulation and your poverty but you are rich, and the blasphemy by those who say they are jews and are not, but are a synagogue of satan. do not fear what you are about to suffer. behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, so that you will be tested and you will have tribulation for ten days. be faituful until death, and i will give you the crown of life. he who has an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches. he who overcomes will not be hurt by the second death. and to the angel of the church in pergamum write.

the one who has the sharp two edged sword says this:

i know where yhou dwell, where satan’s throne is, and you hold fast my name, and did not deny my faith even in the days of antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where satan dwells. but i have a few things against you, because you have there some who hold the teaching of balaam, who kept teaching balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of isreal, to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit acts of immorality. so you also have some who in the same way hold the teaching of the nicolaitans. therefore repend, or else i am coming to you quickly and i will make war agaisntthem whith the sword of my mouth. he who has an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches to him who overcomes, to him i will give some of the hidden manna, and i will give hime a white stone, and a new name written on the stone which no one knows but he who receives it. 

and to the angel of the church in thyatira write:

the son of God who has eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like burnished bronze, says this:

i know your deeds, and your love and faith and service and perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than the first. but i have this against you, that you tolerate the woman jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she teaches and leads my bond servants astray so that they commit acts of immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent, and she does not want to repent of her immorality. behold , i will throw here on a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of ther deeds. and i will kill her children with pestilence, and all the churches will know that i am he who searches the minds and hearts, and i will give to each one of you caccording to your deeds. but i say to you, the rest who are in thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who hasve not known the deep things of satan, as they call them, i place no other burden on you. nevertheless what you have hold fast until i come. he who overcomes, and he who keeps my deeds until the end, to hime i will give authority over the nations. and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces. as i also have received autority from my father, and i will give hime the morning star. he who has an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches.

to the angel of the church in sardis write:

he who has the seven spirites of God and the seven stars, says this.

i know your deeds,that you have a name that youare alive, but you are dead. wake up and strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die, for i have not fourd your deeds completed in the sight of my God. so remember what you have received and heard, and keep it, and repent. therefore if you do not wake up, i will come like a thief. and you will not know at what hour i will come to you. but you have a few people in sardis who have not soiled their garments. and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy he who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments, and i will not erase his name form the book of life, and i will confess his name before mhy father and before his angels. he who has an ear, let hime hear what the spirit says to the churches.

and to the angle of the church in philadelphia write.

he who is holy who is true, who has the key of david, who opens and no one will shut and who shuts and no one opens, says this

i know your deeds, behold, i have put before you an open door which no one can shut, because you have a little power,and have kept my word, and have not denied my name. behold, i will cause those of the synagogue of satan, who say that they are jews and are not ,but lie, i will make theme come and bow dowwn at your feet, and make theme know that i have loved you. because you have kept the word of my perseverance. i alsowill keep you from the hour of testing, that hour which is about to come upoen the whole world, to test those who dewell on the earth. i am coming quickly, hold fast what you have, so that no one will take your crown. he who oevercomes, i will make him a pillar in the temple of my god, and he will not go out from it anymore,and i will write on hime the name of my god and the name of the city of my god, the new jerusalem,which comes down out of heaven from my god and my new name. he who hase an ear let hime hear what the spirit says to the churches.

to the angels of the church in Laodicea write:

the amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God, says this:

i know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot; i wish that you were cold or hot. so because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, i will spit you out of my mouth. because you say, i am rich ,and have become wealthy, and have need of nothing. and you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked, i advise you to buy from me gold refined by fir so that you may become rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed; and eye salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see. those whom i love, i reprove and discipline, therefore be zealous and repent. behold, i stand at the door and knock, if anyone hears my voice and opens the door, i will come in to him and will dine with him, and he with me. he who overcomes, i will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne, as i also overcame and sat down with my father on his throne. he who has an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches.

after these things i looked, and behold , a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which i had heard, like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me, said, come up hear, and i will show you what must take place after these things. immediately i was in the spirit, and behold, a throne was standing in heaven, and one sitting on the throne. and he who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance, and there was a rainbow around the throne. like an emeranld in appearance. around the throne were twenty four thrones, and upon the thrones i say twenty four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and golden crowns on their heads.

out from the throne come flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder. and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,which are the seven spirits of god, and before the throne there was something like a sea of glass.like crystal, and in the center and around the throne, four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. the first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like that of a man, and the fourth creature was like a flying eagle. and the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes abround and within,and day and night they do not cease to say, holy, holy,holy is the lord god, the almighty, who was and who is and who is to come. and when the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and ever, the trwenty four elders will fall down before hime who sits on the throne, and will worship him who lives forever and ever, and will cast their crowns before the throne, saying

worthy are you, our loard and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and because of yourwill they existed, and were created.

i say in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and on the back,sealed up with seven seals, and i saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? and no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the book or to look into it. they i began to weep greatly because no one was found worthy to open the book or to look into it, and one of the elders sayd to me, stop weeping, behold, the lion that is from the tribe of judah, the root of david, has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals.

and i saw between the throne with the four living creatures and the elders a lamb standing, as if slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent out into all the earth. and he came and took the book out the righthand of him who sat on the throne. when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the lamb, each one holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. and they sang a new song, saying, worthy are you to take the book and break its seals, for you were slain and perchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation.

you have made theme to be a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth.

then i looked, and i heard the voice of may angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of theme was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. and every created things which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all things in them, heard saying, to him who sits on the throne, and to the lamb, be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. and the four living creatures kept saying, amen. and the elders fell down and worshiped.