抄经记

NASB

revelation

the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his bond-servants, the things which must soon take place,and he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bond-servant john, who tesified to the word of God and to the tesimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it; for the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in asia, grace to you and peace, from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven Spirites who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. to him who loves us and released us from our sins by his blood, and he has made us to be a kingdom ,priests to his god and father, to him be the glory and the dominion foreverand ever. amen. behold he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will seehim, even those who pierced him,and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. so it is to be amen.

I am the alpha and the omega, says the lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the almighty. I john, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perserance which are in Jesus, was on the island called patmos because of the word of God and the tesimony of Jesus. I was in the spirit on the lord’s day, and i heard behind me a loud voice, like the sound of a trumpet, saying, write in a book what you see, and send it to the seven churches, to ephesus, and to smyrna and to pergamum and to thyatira, and to sardis and to philadelphia and to laodicea.

then i turned to see the voice that was speaking with me, and having turned i saw seven golden lampstands, and in the middle of the lampstands i saw one like a son of man, clothed in a robe reaching to the feet and girded across his chest with a golden sash. his head and his hair were white like white wool, like snow, and his eyes were like a flame of fire. his feet where like burnished bronze, when it has been made to low in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of many waters. in his right hand he held seven stars, and out his mouth came a sharp two edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in its stength. when i say him, i fell at his feet like a dead man. and he placed his right hand on me, saying, do not be afraid, i am the first and the last and the living one, and i was dead, and behold, i am alive forevermore, and i have gthe keys of death and of hades. therefore write the things which you have seen, and the things which are ,and the things which will take place after these things. as for the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.

to the angel of the church in ephesus write:

the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands, says this:

I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance, and that you cannot tolerate evil men, and you put to the test those who call themseves apostles, and they are not, and you found them to be false, and you have perseverance and have endured for my name’s sake, and have not grown weary. but i have this agianst you, that you have left your first love. therefore, remember from where you have fallen and repent and do the deeds you did at first, or else I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its plance—unless you repent. yet this you do have ,that you hate the deeds of the nicolaitans, which i also hate, he who has an ear, let him hear what the spirit shys to the churches. to him who overcomes, i will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. 

