Shot in space, feature film 'The Challenge' rockets at Russian box office

在太空拍摄的电影《挑战》在俄罗斯票房大卖

News 新闻

By Robert Z. Pearlman( collectspace.com ) published April 24, 2023

由罗伯特·Z·珀尔曼（collectspace.com）撰写，于 2023 年 4 月 24 日发布

'Spaceflight costs a pretty penny, but now you can buy a [movie] ticket and find yourself in space.'

太空飞行成本不菲，但现在你可以购买一张[电影]票，然后置身于太空中。

Comments (0) 评论（0）

Artwork from the "Vyzov" ("The Challenge") movie poster depicts actress Yulia Peresild as surgeon Zhenya Belyaeva floating in the Cupola aboard the International Space Station.

Artwork from the "Vyzov" ("The Challenge") movie poster depicts actress Yulia Peresild as surgeon Zhenya Belyaeva floating in the Cupola aboard the International Space Station (Image credit: Central Partnership)

电影《挑战》的海报上的艺术作品描绘了女演员尤利娅·佩列西尔德饰演的外科医生珍娅·别利亚娃在国际空间站的穹顶中漂浮（图片来源：中央合作社）

The first feature-length narrative movie to have scenes shot in space by a professional filmmaker rocketed to the top of Russia's box office over the weekend, six months after the director and lead actress launched on 12-day visit to the International Space Station.

这是第一部由专业电影制片人在太空拍摄场景的长篇故事片，上映后在俄罗斯票房排名首位，导演和女主角在国际空间站停留 12 天后的六个月内发射升空。

"Vyzov" ("Вызов"), or "The Challenge," brought in 445 million rubles (about $5.5 million U.S.) from 1.4 million viewers since opening Friday (April 20) in Russia and the post-Soviet states — including at the mission's actual launch site, Baikonur Cosmdrome in Kazakhstan.

《挑战》自 4 月 20 日（星期五）在俄罗斯和后苏联国家上映以来，已经吸引了 140 万观众，收入 4.45 亿卢布（约 550 万美元），其中包括在任务的实际发射地点哈萨克斯坦的拜科努尔航天发射场。

Russian actress Yulia Peresild, who in the film plays a thoracic surgeon who is launched on an emergency mission to save the life of an ailing cosmonaut, and director Klim Shipenko, who wrote the screenplay and also helped film in orbit, joined other members of the cast and a crew for a special screening of "The Challenge" at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow on Cosmonautics Day (April 12), the 62nd anniversary of Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin becoming the first human to fly into space.

俄罗斯女演员尤利娅·佩列西尔德在电影中饰演一位胸外科医生，她被派遣执行紧急任务，拯救一名身体不适的宇航员的生命。导演克里姆·希彭科编写了剧本，并在轨道上协助拍摄。他们与其他演员和工作人员一起，在莫斯科克里姆林宫举行了一场特别放映活动，庆祝宇航员日（4 月 12 日），这是苏联宇航员尤里·加加林成为第一个进入太空的人的 62 周年纪念日。

Sponsored Links 赞助链接

Kein Scherz: So kosten Treppenlifte fast nichts

不是开玩笑：楼梯电梯几乎不花钱

Treppenlift-Vergleich 楼梯升降机比较

Also in attendance were professional cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Oleg Novitsky, who, respectively, launched and landed with Peresild and Shipenko in October 2021, as well as cosmonaut Pyotr Dubrov, who was aboard the station when the filming occurred. All three have parts in "The Challenge," with Novitsky playing "Oleg Bogdanov," the fictional cosmonaut in need of Evgenia "Zhenya" Belyaeva's (Peresild) medical attention.

还有专业宇航员安东·谢普列罗夫和奥列格·诺维茨基也在场，他们分别在 2021 年 10 月与佩列西尔德和希彭科一起发射和降落，以及宇航员彼得·杜布罗夫，他在拍摄期间在航天站上。这三人在《挑战》中都有角色，诺维茨基饰演需要叶甫根尼娅·别廖娃（佩列西尔德饰演）的医疗关注的虚构宇航员奥列格·博格达诺夫。

LATEST VIDEOS FROM SPACE

太空的最新视频

Click here for more Space.com videos...

点击这里查看更多 Space.com 的视频...

CLOSE

Related: 3, 2, 1 ... action! Russia launches film crew to shoot movie on space station

相关：3、2、1...行动！俄罗斯发射电影摄制组到太空站拍摄电影

A joint project between Russia's federal space corporation Roscosmos, the state-controlled television network Channel One and production company Yellow, Black and White, "The Challenge" was aimed at marketing the Russian space program to a new generation.

俄罗斯联邦航天公司 Roscosmos、国家控制的电视网络 Channel One 和制作公司 Yellow, Black and White 共同参与的项目《挑战》旨在将俄罗斯航天计划推广给新一代人。

"This is a unique opportunity to fly to space for the 200-ruble [about $2.50 U.S.] cost of a movie ticket," said producer Konstantin Ernst at a press conference promoting the film. "Spaceflight costs a pretty penny, but now you can buy a ticket and find yourself in space."

制片人康斯坦丁·恩斯特在推广电影的新闻发布会上表示：“这是一个独特的机会，只需花费 200 卢布（约合 2.5 美元）就可以飞往太空，就像看一场电影一样便宜。”他还说：“太空飞行成本很高，但现在你可以买一张票，亲身体验太空。”

Get the Space.com Newsletter

获取 Space.com 的新闻简报

Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!

突发太空新闻，最新的火箭发射更新，观星活动等等！

Your Email Address

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands

与我联系，获取来自其他未来品牌的新闻和优惠信息

Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

代表我们值得信赖的合作伙伴或赞助商，收到我们的电子邮件

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

The total cost of making "The Challenge," including marketing it to theatergoers, has not been released, but it was reported to be at least 905 million rubles ($11.6 million U.S.) by Russian media. The movie's theatrical release is set to expand to the Middle East on April 27. Further distribution to China and other countries around the world is still being decided.

制作《挑战》的总成本，包括向观众进行市场营销，尚未公布，但据俄罗斯媒体报道，至少为 9.05 亿卢布（约合 1160 万美元）。该电影的院线发行计划于 4 月 27 日扩展至中东地区。对于中国和其他国家的进一步发行仍在决定中。

Roscosmos cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov (at front) joins his fellow cast and film crew members at an April 12, 2023 screening of "Vyzov" ("The Challenge") at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow.

Roscosmos cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov (at front) joins his fellow cast and film crew members at an April 12, 2023 screening of "Vyzov" ("The Challenge") at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow. (Image credit: Anton Shklaperov/Instagram)

俄罗斯航天局宇航员安东·什卡普列罗夫（前排）于2023年4月12日在莫斯科克里姆林宫参加了电影《挑战》的放映活动，与其他演员和剧组成员一同出席。（图片来源：安东·什卡普列罗夫/Instagram）

For its part, Roscosmos promoted the film as a means to demonstrate the rapid training of a crew, as well as attract interest by women to join the country's cosmonaut corps. Peresild was chosen for the role and the (real) Soyuz MS-19 crew from an initial applicant pool of 3,000 women.

对于俄罗斯航天局而言，他们将这部电影作为展示船员快速训练的手段，并吸引更多女性加入该国宇航员队伍的方式进行推广。在最初的3000名女性申请者中，佩雷西尔德被选中扮演角色，并与（真实的）联盟MS-19船员一同出演。

"We don't have many videos where you can watch [Russian] women in space, but there are a lot of American and European astronauts," said Peresild, who became the fifth Russian woman to fly into space. "I've been following them and noticed one thing: when women have a little curly hair, it flies beautifully in zero gravity. So I had 20 elastic bands for my hair, and every night after washing my hair, I curled my hair on these electric bands. That's why the hair flew so magically. Otherwise, it would just stand up like a ball."

"我们没有很多可以观看[俄罗斯]女性在太空中的视频，但有很多美国和欧洲的宇航员，"佩雷西尔德说道，她成为第五位进入太空的俄罗斯女性。"我一直在关注她们，注意到一件事：当女性有一点卷发时，在零重力环境中它们会飘得很美。所以我带了20个发圈，每天晚上洗完头后，我会用这些发圈把头发卷起来。这就是为什么头发会如此神奇地飘起来。否则，它只会像一个球一样竖立着。"

To promote the film's release, Roscomos arranged for the Soyuz MS-18 descent module to be temporarily displayed in central Moscow. The spacecraft brought Novitsky, Peresild and Shipenko back to Earth and a safe landing in Kazakhstan.

为了推广电影的上映，俄罗斯航天局安排了联盟MS-18返回舱在莫斯科市中心临时展示。这艘航天器将诺维茨基、佩列西尔德和希彭科安全地带回地球，并在哈萨克斯坦着陆。

The Soyuz MS-18 descent capsule that landed in October 2021 from the International Space Station with Roscosmos cosmonaut Oleg Novitsky, Russian actress Yulia Peresild and director Klim Shipenko was exhibited in Moscow to help promote the release of the movie "Vyzov" ("The Challenge"), April 8-9, 2023.

The Soyuz MS-18 descent capsule that landed in October 2021 from the International Space Station with Roscosmos cosmonaut Oleg Novitsky, Russian actress Yulia Peresild and director Klim Shipenko was exhibited in Moscow to help promote the release of the movie "Vyzov" ("The Challenge"), April 8-9, 2023. (Image credit: VDNH)

2021年10月，载有俄罗斯宇航员奥列格·诺维茨基、俄罗斯女演员尤利娅·佩列西尔德和导演克里姆·希彭科的联盟MS-18返回舱从国际空间站成功降落，并于2023年4月8日至9日在莫斯科展出，以推广电影《挑战》的上映。（图片来源：VDNH）

RELATED STORIES: 相关报道：

— Soyuz spacecraft: Backbone of the Russian space program

联盟飞船：俄罗斯航天计划的支柱

— Russian film crew deemed medically fit for Oct. 5 launch to space station

— 俄罗斯电影摄制组被认为在 10 月 5 日发射到空间站时身体健康

— Photos: The first space tourists

— 照片：第一批太空游客

The Russian Post also released a new postage stamp, part of the country's "Modern Russian Cinematography" series, depicting the movie's poster art. The 30-ruble stamp was issued on Friday to coincide with the film's theatrical release and was accompanied by special postal cancellations at stations in Moscow, Star City (Zvezdny Gorodok) and Korolev of the Moscow Region, Baikonur, Perm and Chelyabinsk.

俄罗斯邮政还发布了一枚新的邮票，作为该国“现代俄罗斯电影”系列的一部分，描绘了电影的海报艺术。这枚 30 卢布的邮票于星期五发行，与电影的院线上映同时进行，并在莫斯科、星城（Zvezdny Gorodok）和莫斯科地区的科罗廖夫、拜科努尔、彼尔姆和车里雅宾斯克等车站附有特殊的邮政取消戳记。

"The Challenge" beat the reported plans by actor Tom Cruise to film a movie on the International Space Station, but it's not the first film with scenes shot off Earth. The 1984 Russian film "Return from Orbit" also featured scenes set in space but without the benefit of a professional filmmaker. The cosmonauts on Russia's Salyut 7 space station and Soyuz T-9 spacecraft doubled as both the cast and crew.

“挑战”击败了演员汤姆·克鲁斯计划在国际空间站拍摄电影的报道，但这并不是第一部在地球外拍摄场景的电影。1984 年的俄罗斯电影《从轨道返回》也有在太空中设定的场景，但没有专业电影制片人的帮助。俄罗斯的萨卢特 7 号空间站和联盟 T-9 号航天器上的宇航员既是演员又是工作人员。

Similarly, IMAX, TIME Studios and Felix & Paul Studios have worked with astronauts to film large format, 3D and 360-degree documentaries on board the International Space Station.

同样，IMAX、TIME Studios 和 Felix & Paul Studios 与宇航员合作，在国际空间站上拍摄了大型格式、3D 和 360 度纪录片。

Follow collectSPACE.com on Facebook and on Twitter at @collectSPACE. Copyright 2023 collectSPACE.com. All rights reserved.

在 Facebook 上关注 collectSPACE.com，并在 Twitter 上关注@collectSPACE。版权所有，2023 年 collectSPACE.com 保留所有权利。

Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com.

加入我们的太空论坛，与我们一起讨论最新的任务、夜空等等！如果您有新闻线索、更正或评论，请发送邮件至：community@space.com。

Robert Z. Pearlman

Robert Z. Pearlman

collectSPACE.com Editor, Space.com Contributor

collectSPACE.com 编辑，Space.com 贡献者

Robert Pearlman is a space historian, journalist and the founder and editor of collectSPACE.com, an online publication and community devoted to space history with a particular focus on how and where space exploration intersects with pop culture. Pearlman is also a contributing writer for Space.com and co-author of "Space Stations: The Art, Science, and Reality of Working in Space” published by Smithsonian Books in 2018. He previously developed online content for the National Space Society and Apollo 11 moonwalker Buzz Aldrin, helped establish the space tourism company Space Adventures and currently serves on the History Committee of the American Astronautical Society, the advisory committee for The Mars Generation and leadership board of For All Moonkind. In 2009, he was inducted into the U.S. Space Camp Hall of Fame in Huntsville, Alabama. In 2021, he was honored by the American Astronautical Society with the Ordway Award for Sustained Excellence in Spaceflight History.

罗伯特·珀尔曼是一位太空历史学家、记者，也是collectSPACE.com的创始人和编辑。collectSPACE.com是一个致力于太空历史的在线出版物和社区，特别关注太空探索与流行文化的交汇点。珀尔曼还是Space.com的撰稿人，也是2018年由史密森尼书籍出版的《太空站：在太空中工作的艺术、科学和现实》的合著者。他曾为美国国家太空协会和阿波罗11号登月宇航员巴兹·奥尔德林开发在线内容，帮助建立太空旅游公司Space Adventures，并目前担任美国宇航学会历史委员会、The Mars Generation咨询委员会和For All Moonkind领导委员会的成员。2009年，他被授予美国太空营地名人堂荣誉，位于阿拉巴马州亨茨维尔市。2021年，他荣获美国宇航学会颁发的奥德威航天史持续卓越奖。