Taihu limestone rock

Look at those interestingly shaped rocks. They were carefully picked for this garden court. They're called scholars’ rocks because Chinese scholars like the way their shapes inspire new ideas. The most desirable ones usually have dramatic shapes, very craggy surfaces, and lots of holes. What do their shapes remind you of?

This garden court was built in 1980 by Chinese craftsmen, who used traditional building materials they brought from China. There are no nails holding everything together here—traditional woodworking techniques do it all!

Do you notice how the covered walkway on one side of the garden makes a zig-zag pattern? That’s no accident; that’s a trick to slow you down as you walk so you take the time to enjoy the view!

Medium: Taihu rocks, granite terrace, ceramic tile flooring, roof tiles, and door frames, various woods (nan wood columns, pine beams, gingko latticework), brass fittings


Imagine
Use your five senses to explore everything in this space: plants, rocks, water, floor, covered walkway. What kinds of things can you see, hear, smell, and touch? What kinds of food would you want to taste here?

Chinese gardens are all about the relationship between people and nature. Be a garden architect: Draw a plan for your own Chinese garden court using natural materials like wood, stone, clay, and water. 


 visitors
of all ages and backgrounds can enjoy this tranquil retreat and gain revealing insights into fundamental Chinese cultural concepts about art and nature.

 借以粉壁为纸，以石为绘也。


 Landscape paintings and garden design closely influenced each other. While professional garden designers were consulted, especially from the late Min
 especially from the late Ming dynasty onward, scholar- gentlemen viewed the opportunity to design a garden as a stimulating creative endeavor. A noted garden designer and landscape painter, Ji Cheng, advised designers to “take the whitened wall as the painting pa- per, and paint it with rocks.” Similarly, many mountains in landscape paintings bear a closer resemblance to garden and table rocks than they do to peaks in nature.

Particularly distinctive and prized are the ornamental Taihu rocks (page 14), which provide important focal points in the garden. Some of these rocks have been “piled up” to form “peaks,” others form a grotto for the pond and beds for the plantings. Because rocks and plantings are intended to evoke a wilderness landscape, blossoming plants are limited. Instead, the cycle of seasons is repre- sented by specimen flowering plants in ceramic pots, which are moved into the garden as they come into bloom. Because the Museum’s garden court is an interior space maintained at a constant temperature, trees—pines, maples, and plum—that need climatic changes to thrive are absent. But because Suzhou has a mild climate, most of the garden’s plantings are also found there, including “bookmark grass” (mondo grass or liriope), which grows along the edges of the rocks, and the large banana plant, the tallest tree in the garden.




