


“其兴也浡焉，其亡也忽焉”。用当年黄炎培在延安窑洞中说的这句话来描述冰岛的支柱产业－－金融业再确切不过了。2007年，人口只有32万的冰岛人均GDP却达到世界第四，被联合国评为“最适宜居住的国家”。 冰岛再伦敦最繁华的金融界一夜之间，主要银行倒闭、货币急剧贬值、股市暂停交易，这个天堂里的国家坠入了地狱，冰岛总理甚至建议国民自行捕鱼来节省粮食开支。冰岛银行近年吸纳了大量海内外资金，购置大量海外资产，最终导致债务急速膨胀。冰岛国内生产总值2007年仅为193.7亿美元，但外债却超过1383亿美元，以冰岛大约32万人口计算，每名冰岛公民身负约37万美元债务。  


面对金融业传出的寒流，一些冰岛人把目光重新投向了这个国家的古老行业——捕鱼。 

　　上个世纪三十年代，冰岛全国四分之一人口从事渔业，而现在渔民数量仅占冰岛人口的3%。与之相对应的是迅速繁荣的金融业。有冰岛的银行职员表示，不排除脱掉西服换上捕鱼服的可能性。 


百度百科说：黄怒波的中坤投资数百万元人民币开发安徽黄山宏村，第二年，宏村的门票收入从原来的十七万元突增到四百多万元，2008年，中坤开发的“黄山三村”仅门票收入就达到四亿元，而中坤集团目前还有二十年经营期，这意味仅门票收入将达八十亿。


Poor Iceland. Its boom was spectacular. Its bust was traumatic. And now, apparently, colonisation looms. A Chinese tycoon, Huang Nubo, wants to buy 300sqkm of land on the north-east of the island for £5.4bn to open a luxury hotel and an ecological tourist resort.

The Icelandic reputation for cool blood evaporated when its banks started buying up half the British high street. And the hysteria lingers. There is now talk of how this deal will allow China to acquire a strategic foothold in the north Atlantic.

Related articles
The east looks north as China moves in on Iceland
Search the news archive for more stories
Mr Huang's former job in the Chinese propaganda ministry has been cited as evidence of some sort of conspiracy. The Icelandic interior minister, Ogmundur Jonasson, has expressed worries about China's "buying up land around the world".

But what precisely is the danger here? Would China convert the holiday resort into a commercial harbour? Would Mr Huang's hotel transform itself at the push of a button into a military complex, a bit like Tracy Island?

Acquiring land does not give foreign nationals a right to do what they want with it. It is when they start lobbying for changes to domestic law that Icelanders should start to worry. Meanwhile, Iceland should recall its own recent history: it's often the investor, not the recipient of cash, that stands to lose most when an ambitious deal is signed.


黄怒波澄清购买冰岛土地 称与政治无关
www.soufun.com 房地产门户-搜房网 2011-09-01 14:46:00 来源：凤凰卫视 
  [提要]中国投资于战略要地自然会引起西方国家的关注和警惕，但即使如此，也无法阻止中国资本的对外扩张。
中国投资于战略要地自然会引起西方国家的关注和警惕，但即使如此，也无法阻止中国资本的对外扩张。

何亮亮：欢迎收看《总编辑时间》，我是何亮亮。英国的《金融时报》昨天报道说中国的一名富豪，中坤集团的主席黄怒波计划投资一亿美元在冰岛购买相当于1/4的香港的土地，发展旅游业。此举引起了西方国家的强烈质疑，他们认为，建酒店根本就不需要这么大一块地。并且有人警告说，中国可能利用这个项目来做掩护，以实现自己在大西洋岛国和北约成员国的地理战略利益。

房地产投资者曾经是中国政府官员的黄怒波其后就发表声明，澄清在冰岛购地投资完全是出于商业目的，根本无关地缘政治。并且说，《金融时报》这个报导是失实的。

冰岛政府内部对这个计划有分歧，负责审批的内政部长约纳松说，中国目前在世界各地购买土地非常活跃，冰岛有必要仔细考虑其国际影响，但是冰岛的工业能源和旅游部长认为，没有理由因为一个中国人想买点土地投资冰岛的旅游业就歇斯底里起来。

人口只有32万的冰岛位于欧洲与北美之间，战略地位十分重要，如果全球气候变化导致北极水域能够通航，这还渴望成为亚洲货物运输的一个中转站。

昨天我就看到这个报道的时候，我们在节目当中也提了一下，看来这两天这个消息引起的反响还相当不小。这里面我想到的是两个问题。第一个问题，其实就像刚才我们看到的那个冰岛的部长说的那样，中国的商人也好，企业也好，现在在全世界各地买矿产、买土地其实已经是大家都不觉得奇怪了，但是在冰岛，冰岛因为它的战略地理位置非常重要，所以就引起了西方媒体，我们看到的是《金融时报》，西方媒体的强烈质疑，这是一方面。

其实另外我也想到了，如果不是中国的商人投资冰岛，而是俄罗斯商人投资冰岛，要用一亿美元，俄罗斯肯定有这样的商人，而且俄罗斯商人也可能后面会有政府的背景，那么北约肯定会更加紧张，为什么呢？因为中国不是北极圈的国家，而俄罗斯是北极圈的国家。

换句话说，其实一方面我们知道，冰岛由于在2008年金融危机之后，它就听任那些大银行破产，结果就摆脱了当时的经济危机，但是如果找到自己的发展道路，发展旅游业显然是一个最直接，也是最有效的途径，而且需要资金，在这种情况下，有中国商人愿意来投资，这本来就是这样一个很简单的事情。中国不会在冰岛建立一个军事基地，要建立军事基地也不是现在的事情，我想可能要到几十年以后的事情。

但是，从这个新闻引起的风波也可以看得出来，中国的商人也好，企业也好，在海外购买地产要投资的话，如果涉及到类似像冰岛这样的战略要地，它就会引起西方国家高度的警惕和关注。但是同样可以肯定的是，这不会阻止中国资本的对外扩张。




　　诗歌作品
　　著有《不要再爱我》、《拒绝忧郁》、《落英集》、《都市流浪集》、《小兔子》、《第九夜》等诗集。作品先后被翻译成英文、日文、法文、蒙文出版。


　黄怒波真正的第一桶金，来自于1997年与中欧商学院的同学李明合作的一个楼盘——都市网景，一下让他赚了5000多万元。
　　在一次聚会上，黄怒波碰到了一位老朋友（此人当时任黄山市黟县副县长），两人相谈甚欢。黟县经济落后，那位副县长朋友听说了黄怒波的生意，便有意拉他去当地投资。
　　1996年，黄怒波随同朋友去当地参观考察。他一眼就喜欢上了那个有着八百年历史的古朴村落——宏村，中坤投资数百万元人民币开发安徽黄山宏村，修公路，建宾馆，黄怒波对古村落进行了整体规划改造。将它改造成度假性质的的山庄，第二年，宏村的门票收入从原来的十七万元突增到四百多万元，2008年，中坤开发的“黄山三村”仅门票收入就达到四亿元，而中坤集团目前还有二十年经营期，这意味着仅门票收入理论上将达八十亿

南疆的开发

中坤获准对吉尔吉斯斯坦伊塞克湖自然风景区约10万平方公里的旅游资源进行开发。




凤凰网财经讯 据英国《金融时报》报道，一名中国富豪计划在冰岛购买一大块土地，用于开发一个1亿美元的旅游项目。

房地产投资者、曾经是中国政府官员的黄怒波已达成初步协议，拟在冰岛东北部买下300平方公里的未开发土地。他计划在那里建造一个生态旅游度假胜地和高尔夫球场。

反对人士质疑，为什么需要这么大一块地(相当于冰岛国土总面积的约0.3%)来建造一座酒店？人口仅32万的冰岛，占据着欧洲与北美之间一个具有战略重要性的位置，而且已被吹嘘为往来亚洲的潜在航运枢纽——如果气候变化导致北极水域可以通航的话。

这宗交易是黄怒波与私人土地所有者达成的，但仍需得到冰岛政府的批准。冰岛政府拥有这块被称为Grímsstadir áFj llum的土地的一部分。

将负责作出决定的冰岛内务部长奥格门德尔-乔纳森暗示，他对相关计划感到关切。中国在世界各地非常积极地购置土地，因此我们需要明白各种国际影响。除了靠近潜在的深水港口之外，这块土地上还有冰岛最大的冰川河流之一。

为了让冰岛人对他的意图放心，他承诺放弃对流经这块土地的水资源的任何权利。

知情人士称，黄怒波已同意斥资近10亿冰岛克朗(合880万美元)买下土地，并计划投资100亿至200亿冰岛克朗开发旅游项目。

在《福布斯》的中国富豪榜上，黄怒波排在第161位，资产净值达到8.9亿美元。他的公司中坤集团在中国各地拥有多个度假胜地和旅游设施。他将自己形容为诗人和探险家，曾经攀登珠穆朗玛峰，并到过北极和南极。

接近黄怒波的人士表示，他对冰岛的兴趣源于他对大自然的热爱，而非地缘政治。 



Chinese Tycoon Huang Nubo is buying 0.3 percent of Iceland | China Whisper

According to media, Huang Nubo, chairman of Zhongkun Group is buying 300 square kilometers land in Iceland at $ 8.8 million, and then develop a $92 million luxury hotel and ecotourism resort project. Icelandic government is currently evaluating the deal. If successful in his bid, Huang would own 0.3% of the total land area of Iceland.

Purchase private land in Iceland


Huang Nubo already took up the matter with departments concerned of Iceland, planning to purchase 300 square kilometers in north-east Iceland.

It is reported that Huang Nubo had have struck a deal with private landowners. However, because it involves foreigners land purchase, and a small portion of the land is owned by government, according to Iceland law, the deal requires approval of Iceland Government.

Huang Nubo has a background of working in Chinese government organs, He likes adventures and has traveled to North and South Poles and climbed Mount Everest.

Night view of north-east Iceland

Foreign media mislead interpretation

Huang Nubo plans to spend about $ 8.8 million to buy the land. In the following years, he will invest approximately $ 92 million to build luxury hotels and ecotourism resort. It is reported that the country’s biggest glacier river is in this area. Moreover, this piece of land is close to Iceland’s largest national park, nearby is a deep water port.

British media Analysis said the deal would allow China to get access to strategic foothold in Iceland, easy to let the Chinese entry the local deep-water port. Zhang Bo, Chinese military expert, believed that this analysis did not make sense, it was a variant of the Chinese threat theory. “China does not have too much effort and cost to develop strategic standpoint thousands of miles away in Iceland, this does not meet the reality of China’s current development, as well as the interests orientation of the Chinese people.”

Government of Iceland takes different attitudes

Currently Iceland’s government is evaluating the deal. Iceland was severely damaged in financial crisis and wanted to attract foreign investment very much.

Iceland’s Foreign Ministry said Huang Nubo would protect natural resources and was ready to develop eco-tourism.

Icelandic government also has misgivings, the internal affairs minister Ögmundur Jónasson asked the government to consider this seriously, saying the land was too big and was equivalent to 0.3% of Iceland’s land area.

Iceland’s Industry Minister Katrín Júlíusdóttir thought it was not surprising.” Foreigners already owned quite a lot of our land, there is nothing to fear.”


bbc的内容


China's Huang Nubo seeks Iceland land for eco-resort

The area is close to Iceland's Vatnajokull National Park
Continue reading the main story
Related Stories
Iceland country profile
UK and Netherlands to sue Iceland
Iceland agrees new Icesave deal
A Chinese business tycoon is hoping to buy a large area of north-east Iceland to build a luxury hotel and eco-resort.

Huang Nubo is reported to have offered a billion krona (£5.4m: $8.8m) for the 300sq km (155 sq mile) Grimsstadir a Fjollum region.

Critics of the plan fear it could be used by China to gain a strategic foothold in Iceland.

But Icelandic officials have welcomed the purchase and the further 20bn krona Mr Huang says he intends to invest.

Mr Huang is the chairman of the Zhongkun investment group, and is also reported to have worked as a minister in the Chinese Central Propaganda Department and Ministry of Construction.

Iceland's Foreign Ministry said Mr Huang's plans involved linking up the Vatnajokull and and Jokulsargljufur national parks, in line with his company's "emphasis on nature conservation and environmental tourism".

Mr Huang had promised to co-operate fully with the Icelandic authorities, said the ministry, and to renounce any claims to water from the Jokulsa a Fjollum river which crosses the property.

Iceland's once booming economy suffered a dramatic crash in 2008 with three of its major banks collapsing and is in urgent need of growth and foreign investment.

'Tread carefully'
While the purchase has been approved by the local landlords, officials said Mr Huang had yet to apply for an exemption from laws barring non-EU nationals from buying land.

Some in Iceland have raised concerns about the long term implications of Icelandic territory entering foreign hands, and that the land could give China future access to deep sea ports in the area.


"We face the fact that a foreign tycoon wants to buy 300sq km of Icelandic land. This has to be discussed and not swallowed without chewing," Interior Minister Ogmundur Jonasson wrote on his website.

He said China was known for its "long term thinking alongside buying up the world" and warned against Iceland accepting the purchase without full consideration.

Mr Jonasson said Iceland needed to learn its lesson from the banking crisis and listen to those people cautioning against accepting any investment offered.

"Isn't it necessary to pause and think when we offer Iceland up for sale again?"

However, Iceland's Minister for Industry, Katrin Juliusdottir, told reporters it was clear the country had to "tread carefully".

But she said there was "no reason to get hysterical just because one Chinese man wants to buy some land and invest in tourism in Iceland".

"Foreigners already own quite a bit of land here and I don't think there is anything to fear from that."

旅游杂志的介绍

Chinese tycoon eyes $100M tourism project in Iceland

Comments Email Twitter	
inShare
    
Agence France-Presse  Aug 30, 2011 – 5:26 PM ET | Last Updated: Aug 30, 2011 6:03 PM ET

REYKJAVIK – A Chinese tycoon wants to buy a huge tract of land in Iceland for a $100 million (70 million euro) eco-tourism project that will include a golf course, the Financial Times said Tuesday.

Huang Nubo, a real estate investor and former government official, has sealed a provisional deal to acquire 300 square kilometres (about 200 square miles) of Icelandic territory, the newspaper said.

However Iceland’s interior minister stressed that, under Icelandic law such a sale of land, part of which is owned by the state, to a foreign entity would be illegal.

For it to become possible a special exemption from the law would be required, minister Ogmundur Jonasson said in Reykjavik.

That would require, as a first step, a letter to the ministry and “we haven’t received such a letter,” he added.

“It doesn’t get sold just because there is a high offer,” he added, without putting a price on the land.

“It hasn’t gone unnoticed by anybody that the Chinese are buying up land in the four corners of the world,” he said, while insisting that ethnicity was not the issue.

Iceland occupies a strategically important location between Europe and North America and has been touted as a potential hub for Asian cargo should climate change open Arctic waters to shipping.

Forbes ranked Huang as China’s 161st richest man in 2010, with a net worth of $890 million. His company, Zhongkun Group, owns resorts and tourist facilities across China and around the world.

A spokeswoman for Zhongkun Group in Beijing refused to comment on the reported deal when contacted by AFP, but said Huang would hold a press conference in the capital on Friday.

The Financial Times said Huang had previously worked at China’s Central Propaganda Department and the Ministry of Construction.

The Iceland Review Online reported last week that Huang signed a deal with land owners including the Icelandic government last Wednesday, and that the deal was dependent on approval by both China and Iceland.

Iceland’s booming economy collapsed in 2008 when its hugely overstretched banking sector plunged suddenly into crisis and its three major banks collapsed within a matter of weeks.

Since then, the country has gone through much soul-searching and a string of painful changes to put its house in order, helped by an International Monetary Fund rescue.

On Friday last week, the IMF approved the final release of funds in its $2.25 billion bailout programme for Iceland.



评论

Ben Chu: China buy up Iceland? They wish...
Wednesday, 31 August 2011SHARE PRINTEMAILTEXT SIZE NORMALLARGEEXTRA LARGE
SPONSORED LINKS
Ads by Google

CKGSB China MBA
Learn how to make China's success
into your success. Apply today!
www.cheungkong-gsb.com

£100k+ Pension In China?
Free Pensions, Savings & Investment
Report For Expats. Download Now!
QROPSpensiondesigner.com/FreeGuide

Henley Distance MBA
Seasoned Global Execs (Avg Age 38)
Classes in HK since 1986.
www.henleymba.com.hk

Attention All Expatriates
Free Savings, Pension & Investment
Report for all Expats. Request Now!
www.OffshoreSavingsDesigner.com

Poor Iceland. Its boom was spectacular. Its bust was traumatic. And now, apparently, colonisation looms. A Chinese tycoon, Huang Nubo, wants to buy 300sqkm of land on the north-east of the island for £5.4bn to open a luxury hotel and an ecological tourist resort.

The Icelandic reputation for cool blood evaporated when its banks started buying up half the British high street. And the hysteria lingers. There is now talk of how this deal will allow China to acquire a strategic foothold in the north Atlantic.

Related articles
The east looks north as China moves in on Iceland
Search the news archive for more stories
Mr Huang's former job in the Chinese propaganda ministry has been cited as evidence of some sort of conspiracy. The Icelandic interior minister, Ogmundur Jonasson, has expressed worries about China's "buying up land around the world".

But what precisely is the danger here? Would China convert the holiday resort into a commercial harbour? Would Mr Huang's hotel transform itself at the push of a button into a military complex, a bit like Tracy Island?

Acquiring land does not give foreign nationals a right to do what they want with it. It is when they start lobbying for changes to domestic law that Icelanders should start to worry. Meanwhile, Iceland should recall its own recent history: it's often the investor, not the recipient of cash, that stands to lose most when an ambitious deal is signed.





29.08.2011 | 12:10
Minister Wants Close Consideration of Chinese Offer
Minister of the Interior Ögmundur Jónasson said the legislation and constitution must be reviewed carefully so that the public ownership of nature and natural resources can be secured and that the acquisition by a Chinese investment company of the land Grímsstadir á Fjöllum in northeast Iceland must be considered with the nation’s overall interest in mind. People are often too quick to accept offers like these, he commented.

人们往往会迫不及待地接受这样一个开价，但是应该仔细评估，确保此地的自然资源的所有权不被易手，中国人收购这件事，要考虑国家整体利益，不能见小利而忘大义。


Huang Nubo, who chairs the investment company Zhongkun Group, is planning to construct a luxury hotel on the land and enhance eco-tourism in the region. Permission from Icelandic authorities is required, ruv.is reports.



“It is important to raise awareness of the fact that acquisition like this isn’t legal. However, it is possible to apply for an exemption from the law and such an application hasn’t arrived on my desk yet but when it does, we will look at it carefully,” the minister said.

He added the discussion of a framework program on the protection and harnessing of natural resources is closely connected to the discussion of the acquisition of foreign parties of land in Iceland and raises many questions.

“The legislative body saw reason to limit the relocation of Icelandic land to foreign parties. We have to ask ourselves whether that limitation has become obsolete. I think not,” Jónasson continued.

“But now we face the fact that a foreign tycoon wants to buy 300 square kilometers of Icelandic land. We have to discuss it and not swallow without chewing; would we find it all right if the entire country were sold this way?” he asked.

The minister said the acquisition offer should remind people of the importance of the ownership of land where nature is considered private property and the profits from it are intended for private parties. Therefore laws and the constitution must be reviewed carefully, he reasoned.

Minister of Industry and Tourism Katrín Júlíusdóttir is not as concerned, pointing out that natural resources are being reviewed by the current government and an overall policy on natural resources is underway. The current legal environment is fit to deal with acquisition of land, she told ruv.is.

“I find it positive if people want to develop Icelandic tourism, especially if people are looking towards large-scale investments. It is in the spirit of this government to support that. However, when it comes to harnessing the country’s resources different rules are in effect,” she pointed out.

According to ruv.is, Zhongkun Group is prepared to pay ISK 1 billion (USD 8.8 million, EUR 6.1 million) for Grímsstadir á Fjöllum.

Huang established the company, which focuses on investments in real estate and tourism, in 1995. The company has grown quickly and has invested in the US, Japan and elsewhere.

For example, in 2003 Zhongkun Group built a mall in Los Angeles, bought a 1,000-hectare piece of land in Nashville, Tennessee, and built a Chinese center in New York for USD 73 million (ISK 8.3 billion, EUR 50 million).

Last year Huang established a cultural fund in Iceland, contributing USD 1 million (ISK 114 million, EUR 689,000) to the fund. The investor favors the outdoors and has traveled widely, among other locations to the North Pole.

Grímsstadir á Fjöllum has been advertised for sale for some time on the website grimsstadir.com. It has now been closed.







3
Chinese Investor Fond of Iceland Because of Lopi Wool
Huang Nubo, who chairs Chinese investment company Zhongkun Group which this week acquired a 75 percent share of the land Grímsstadir á Fjöllum in northeast Iceland, said in an interview with Morgunbladid that he has been fond of the country ever since lopi, Icelandic wool, kept him warm 30 years ago while he was studying at the Peking University with his Icelandic friends.



A traditional Icelandic lopapeysa, a sweater made from lopi, wool from Icelandic sheep. Photo by Janne Kristensen.

Among Huang’s Icelandic schoolmates was Hjörleifur Sveinbjörnsson. “He envisions that Iceland will become the world’s next tourism paradise,” Sveinbjörnsson told Fréttabladid of his friend, who has also invested in tourism in China, the US and Japan.

Provided Icelandic authorities approve of his plans, a 120-room luxury hotel will rise at Grímsstadir in the next three to four years, in addition to a golf course and horse stable.

The land lies close to major attractions such as lake Mývatn, Dettifoss, Europe’s most powerful waterfall, Ásbyrgi nature reserve, Mt. Herdubreid, the volcano Askja and the mountain range Kverkfjöll, to name a few.

“There are places like Iceland, especially its northern part, which are the future paradises of environmental tourism,” Huang told Morgunbladid. He is now looking for land in Reykjavík to construct Zhongkun Group’s headquarters and another hotel.

“I will build a five-star 300-room hotel in Reykjavík suited for international conferences,” he said. “The total investment at this stage will be close to ISK 20 billion (USD 175 million, EUR 121 million).”

According to Fréttabladid, he is even thinking of having an airline transport guests between the two hotels.

Huang focuses on environmental tourism which wealthy Chinese tourists are increasingly seeking. He emphasizes protecting and improving the environment at Grímsstadir and wants to work with the Soil Conservation Service of Iceland, as stated in Morgunbladid.

Sveinbjörnsson believes the development will have a positive impact on Icelandic tourism, especially in the northeast. “It is ambitious tourism. It is green and will deliver considerable money to the country,” he told Fréttabladid.

Director of Tourism Ólöf Ýrr Atladóttir welcomes these plans, declaring them great news, pointing out that investments in tourism on this scale have never taken place in Iceland before.

Click here to read more about this sto



每年两次(有落叶季和无落叶季)，镇政府总找些志愿者试走周边特别是林间的徒步路线，便于及时发现安全隐患。今年也领了条林路来走，之后交报告时，告诉说旅游册上标时4小时，我只用了两个半。结果被众人取笑说，瞧瞧这可不就是你们中国人的问题，无论干什么，速度都太快了! :)



