CURRENT EVENTS
The FAQs: Supreme Court Blocks Biden’s Workplace Vaccine Mandate

常见问题：最高法院阻止拜登的工作场所疫苗任务

JANUARY 13, 2022  |  JOE CARTER

What just happened?
On Thursday, the Supreme Court blocked a COVID-19 vaccination mandate by President Biden’s Occupational Safety and Health 

Administration (OSHA). (In a related case, the Court has temporarily allowed similar mandates enacted by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services [CMS] that affect the staff of many types of Medicare and Medicaid health-care providers.)

The OSHA mandate, which affected about 84 million Americans, will remain on hold pending legal challenges to the rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

刚刚发生了什么？
周四，最高法院阻止了拜登总统的职业安全与健康管理局（OSHA）的COVID-19疫苗接种任务。(在一个相关的案件中，法院暂时允许医疗保险和医疗补助服务中心[CMS]颁布的类似任务，这些任务影响到许多类型的医疗保险和医疗补助保健提供者的工作人员）。

影响约8400万美国人的OSHA授权将继续被搁置，等待美国第六巡回上诉法院对该规则的法律挑战。


What is OSHA?
OSHA, part of the United States Department of Labor, was created by Congress in the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. The purpose of OSHA is to “ensure safe and healthful working conditions for workers by setting and enforcing standards and by providing training, outreach, education and assistance.” OSHA regulations apply to most private sector employers and their workers.

什么是OSHA？
OSHA是美国劳工部的一部分，由国会在1970年的《职业安全和健康法》中创建。OSHA的目的是 "通过制定和执行标准以及提供培训、推广、教育和援助，确保工人的安全和健康的工作条件"。OSHA的规定适用于大多数私营部门的雇主和他们的工人。

What was the OSHA vaccination mandate?
Last November, the Biden administration issued an emergency temporary standard (ETS) to “protect unvaccinated employees of large employers (100 or more employees) from the risk of contracting COVID-19 by strongly encouraging vaccination.” The rule required that employers of large companies must “develop, implement, and enforce a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy, with an exception for employers that instead adopt a policy requiring employees to either get vaccinated or elect to undergo regular COVID-19 testing and wear a face covering at work in lieu of vaccination.”

OSHA的疫苗接种任务是什么？
去年11月，拜登政府发布了一项紧急临时标准（ETS），"通过大力鼓励接种疫苗，保护大型雇主（100名或以上雇员）的未接种疫苗的雇员免受感染COVID-19的风险"。该规则要求大公司的雇主必须 "制定、实施和执行强制性的COVID-19疫苗接种政策，但对那些采取政策要求员工接种疫苗或选择定期接受COVID-19检测并在工作中佩戴面罩以代替接种疫苗的雇主则是例外。"

The rule applied to all employers with 100 or more employees.

Did the mandate include a religious exemption?
The rule included exemptions for employees in three categories: (1) those for whom a vaccine is medically contraindicated, (2) those for whom medical necessity requires a delay in vaccination, or (3) those who are legally entitled to a reasonable accommodation under federal civil-rights laws because they have a disability or sincerely held religious beliefs, practices, or observances that conflict with the vaccination requirement.

该规则适用于所有拥有100名或以上雇员的雇主。

该授权是否包括宗教豁免？
该规则包括对三类雇员的豁免。(1) 疫苗在医学上有禁忌的人，(2) 因医疗需要而需要推迟接种的人，或(3) 根据联邦民权法有权获得合理便利的人，因为他们有残疾或真诚的宗教信仰、习俗或纪念活动，与接种要求相冲突。

However, as the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission has pointed out,

While there are stated religious liberty exemptions, it is concerning that the ETS requires each covered employer to establish and implement their own written policy regarding religious exemptions. With this rule, each employer is effectively tasked with creating their own policies, and there will be thousands of different policies throughout the country, leading to inconsistent application and confusion. The proposed rule doesn’t offer any guidance for how to structure exemptions for objectors who have sincerely held religious beliefs.

然而，正如道德与宗教自由委员会所指出的。

虽然有明确的宗教自由豁免，但令人担忧的是，ETS要求每个受保护的雇主建立和实施他们自己的关于宗教豁免的书面政策。有了这一规则，每个雇主实际上都要制定自己的政策，全国各地将有数以千计的不同政策，导致不一致的应用和混乱。拟议的规则没有提供任何指导，说明如何为那些有真诚宗教信仰的反对者构建豁免。

Why was the rule struck down by the Supreme Court?
The rule was blocked because the majority of the justices believe OSHA had overstepped its legitimate statutory authority.

为什么该规则被最高法院否决了？
该规则被阻止是因为大多数法官认为OSHA超越了其合法的法定权力。

The majority opinion notes, “The [Labor] Secretary has ordered 84 million Americans to either obtain a COVID–19 vaccine or undergo weekly medical testing at their own expense. This is no ‘everyday exercise of federal power.’ It is instead a significant encroachment into the lives—and health—of a vast number of employees.”

多数意见指出："[劳工]部长命令8400万美国人要么接种COVID-19疫苗，要么每周自费接受医疗测试。这不是'联邦权力的日常行使'。相反，它是对大量雇员的生活和健康的重大侵犯"。

The ruling points out that the OSHA is only empowered to set workplace safety standards that concern “occupational” hazards, not broad public health measures. “Although COVID–19 is a risk that occurs in many workplaces, it is not an occupational hazard in most,” said the Court. “COVID–19 can and does spread at home, in schools, during sporting events, and everywhere else that people gather. That kind of universal risk is no different from the day-to-day dangers that all face from crime, air pollution, or any number of communicable diseases.”


该裁决指出，OSHA只有权制定涉及 "职业 "危害的工作场所安全标准，而不是广泛的公共卫生措施。"尽管COVID-19是在许多工作场所发生的风险，但在大多数情况下，它不是一种职业性危害，"法院说。"COVID-19可以而且确实在家庭、学校、体育赛事期间以及人们聚集的其他地方传播。这种普遍的风险与所有人面临的来自犯罪、空气污染或任何数量的传染病的日常危险没有什么不同。"

“Permitting OSHA to regulate the hazards of daily life—simply because most Americans have jobs and face those same risks while on the clock—would significantly expand OSHA’s regulatory authority without clear congressional authorization,” they added.

"他们补充说："允许OSHA监管日常生活中的危险--仅仅是因为大多数美国人都有工作，并且在工作时面临这些同样的风险--将大大扩展OSHA的监管权限，而没有明确的国会授权。

The decision was 6–3, with the Court’s three liberal justices—Justices Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan—dissenting.

判决结果为6-3，法院的三位自由派大法官--斯蒂芬-布雷耶、索尼娅-索托马约尔和埃琳娜-卡根持反对意见。

Why does this ruling matter to Christians?
Numerous employers and workers at Christian organizations, including those who support vaccinations against COVID, opposed the mandate as an illegitimate use of government power over religious institutions. Two theological seminaries in Kentucky—The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary and Asbury Theological Seminary—even sued the Biden administration, asking the courts to block the mandate as unlawful.

为什么这一裁决与基督徒有关？
许多雇主和基督教组织的工作人员，包括那些支持接种COVID疫苗的人，反对这项授权，认为这是政府对宗教机构非法使用权力。肯塔基州的两所神学院--南方浸信会神学院和阿斯伯里神学院--甚至起诉了拜登政府，要求法院阻止该任务的非法性。

“It is unacceptable for the government to force religious institutions to become coercive extensions of state power. We have no choice but to push back against this intrusion of the government into matters of conscience and religious conviction,” said Albert Mohler, president of Southern Seminary. “This institution exists for the purpose of educating ministers for churches. This seminary must not be forced to stand in for the government in investigating the private health decisions of our faculty and employees in a matter involving legitimate religious concerns.”

"政府强迫宗教机构成为国家权力的胁迫性延伸是不可接受的。南方神学院院长阿尔伯特-莫勒（Albert Mohler）说："我们别无选择，只能反击政府对良知和宗教信仰问题的这种侵犯。"这个机构存在的目的是为教会培养牧师。这所神学院绝不能被迫站在政府一边，在涉及合法宗教关切的问题上调查我们教职员工的私人健康决定。"

Joe Carter is an editor for The Gospel Coalition, author of The Life and Faith Field Guide for Parents, the editor of the NIV Lifehacks Bible, and coauthor of How to Argue Like Jesus: Learning Persuasion from History’s Greatest Communicator. He also serves as an associate pastor at McLean Bible Church in Arlington, Virginia.CURRENT EVENTS

乔-卡特是福音联盟的编辑，《父母生活与信仰实战指南》的作者，《NIV生活小百科》的编辑，以及《如何像耶稣一样争辩》的作者之一。从历史上最伟大的沟通者那里学习说服力。他还在弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿的麦克莱恩圣经教会担任副牧师。

