The Growth of Christianity in the World’s First Atheist Country
JANUARY 18, 2022  |  SARAH EEKHOFF ZYLSTRA

基督教在世界第一个无神论者国家的发展情况

When Asim Hamza was growing up in communist Albania in the 1980s, it was the third poorest country in the world. The farm technology hadn’t been updated since the 1920s. Lines for milk stretched 80 people long before dawn. Pharmacies carried nothing but aspirin. Electricity didn’t reliably turn or stay on. Religion was outlawed—making the sign of the cross could land you in jail for three years, owning a Bible was five years.

Hamza had no idea anything was wrong.

20世纪80年代，当阿西姆-哈姆扎在共产主义的阿尔巴尼亚长大的时候，那里是世界上第三贫穷的国家。自20世纪20年代以来，农场技术一直没有更新。购买牛奶的队伍在黎明前就已经排到了80人。药店里除了阿司匹林，什么都没有。电力不能可靠地开启或保持。宗教是非法的，打十字架的手势可能会让你入狱三年，拥有一本圣经则是五年。

哈姆扎不知道有什么不对劲。

The government-controlled television, during the two or three hours it was on each day, showed images of children starving in sub-Saharan Africa. “We were told that was happening everywhere,” Hamza said. “They said, ‘You are the happiest kids in the world.’ And we believed it. We were so thankful to the Communist party leader.”

政府控制的电视，在每天播出的两三个小时里，播放着撒哈拉以南非洲地区儿童挨饿的画面。"哈姆扎说："我们被告知这种情况到处都在发生。"他们说，'你们是世界上最幸福的孩子'。我们相信了这一点。我们非常感谢共产党的领导人。"


Asim and Betilda Hamza and their children / Courtesy of Asim Hamza’s Facebook page
Back then, “Albania was one of the three most closed countries in the world, along with North Korea and Mongolia,” Campus Crusade for Christ missionary Don Mansfield said. He became Cru’s country director for Albania in 1991, when the communist government began to topple. He’d never been there before.

阿西姆和贝蒂尔达-哈姆扎和他们的孩子/阿西姆-哈姆扎的Facebook页面提供。
当时，"阿尔巴尼亚是世界上最封闭的三个国家之一，与朝鲜和蒙古并列，"校园传道会传教士唐-曼斯菲尔德说。1991年，当共产主义政府开始倒台时，他成为克鲁会在阿尔巴尼亚的国家主任。他之前从未去过那里。

“I remember I was in a meeting in Holland with all the global missions agencies,” Mansfield said. “At the time, I didn’t know anything. They were talking about what was going on, and I raised my hand. I asked, ‘How many believers are there in the country?’”

"曼斯菲尔德说："我记得我当时在荷兰与所有全球宣教机构开会。"当时，我什么都不知道。他们正在谈论正在发生的事情，我举起了手。我问，'这个国家有多少信徒'？"


He was expecting a guesstimate, or maybe a percentage of the population.

“Do you know Sonila?” one person asked.

“Kristi?” suggested someone else.

“Maria is a Christian.”

“People were throwing out names, and I got to 16,” Mansfield said. “Everybody looked around and went, ‘Does anybody else know anyone else?’”

他期待着一个猜测，或者也许是人口的一个百分比。

"你认识索尼拉吗？"一个人问。

"克里斯蒂？"另一个人建议。

"玛丽亚是个基督徒。"

"人们纷纷抛出名字，我到了16个，"曼斯菲尔德说。"每个人都环顾四周，然后说，'还有人认识其他的人吗？

No one did. But today, Mansfield could name hundreds. The Joshua Project estimates there are 17,000 evangelical believers in the country. While half of that growth came in the first decade the country was open, the evangelical growth rate is still nearly twice the rate of the rest of the world (4.6 percent compared to 2.6 percent).

没有人知道。但是今天，曼斯菲尔德可以说出数百个名字。约书亚项目估计，全国有17,000名福音派信徒。虽然其中一半的增长是在国家开放的头十年，但福音派的增长率仍然是世界其他地区的近两倍（4.6%，而2.6%）。


Colin Smith (center, back) prays with a group of believers in Albania in 2019 / Courtesy of TGC Albanian’s Facebook page

科林-史密斯（中，后）于2019年在阿尔巴尼亚与一群信徒一起祷告/TGC阿尔巴尼亚的Facebook页面提供

“It’s been a remarkable story of seeing what God has done in one lifetime,” said The Orchard Evangelical Free Church senior pastor and TGC Council member Colin Smith, who spoke at the region’s first TGC conference in 2019. “It’s an amazing change.”

"这是一个了不起的故事，看到上帝在一生中所做的事情，"果园自由福音教会高级牧师和TGC理事会成员科林-史密斯说，他在2019年该地区的第一次TGC会议上发言。"这是一个惊人的变化。"

To be sure, “we’re still small, and we’re not significant in the eyes of this world,” Light Church Tirana lead elder and TGC Albanian Council member Andi Dina said. “But we have a big God, and we worship him. We know he’ll build his church, and the gates of hell won’t prevail against it.”

可以肯定的是，"我们仍然很小，在这个世界的眼中，我们并不重要，"地拉那光明教会首席长老、TGC阿尔巴尼亚理事会成员安迪-迪纳说。"但我们有一位大神，我们敬拜他。我们知道他将建立他的教会，地狱之门也不会战胜它。"

World’s First Atheist State
Even before supreme ruler Enver Hoxha declared Albania the world’s first atheist state in 1967, evangelicals were few and far between. The population was primarily Muslim (70 percent, a heritage from the Ottoman Turks), followed by Greek Orthodox (20 percent, primarily along the border with Greece) and Roman Catholic (10 percent, mostly along the sea that separates Albania from Italy).

世界上第一个无神论者国家
即使在最高统治者恩维尔-霍查于1967年宣布阿尔巴尼亚为世界上第一个无神论国家之前，福音派人士也是少之又少。人口主要是穆斯林（70%，来自奥斯曼土耳其人的遗产），其次是希腊东正教（20%，主要在与希腊交界处）和罗马天主教（10%，主要在将阿尔巴尼亚与意大利分开的海域）。

The evangelical Christians—by one count there were about 100—were largely gathered around a Baptist mission in the city of Korce. But the week after Pearl Harbor, the government kicked all American missionaries out. (Italy, a member of the Axis, was then occupying Albania.)

据统计，福音派基督徒约有100人，主要聚集在科尔察市的一个浸礼会传教所周围。但在珍珠港事件后的一周，政府将所有美国传教士赶了出去。(意大利是轴心国的一员，当时正在占领阿尔巴尼亚）。

Foreign missionaries wouldn’t be allowed back for another 50 years. Hoxha, who came to power after World War II, didn’t just believe religion was opium for the masses. He also saw it as an issue of state security—Roman Catholicism meant influence from Italy, Orthodoxy came straight from Greece and Serbia, and Islam meant interference from Turkey. To allow Protestants would mean meddling from the West. Not only was practicing religion illegal, then, but so was believing it.

外国传教士在另外50年内都不允许回来。二战后上台的霍查不仅认为宗教是大众的鸦片。他还认为这是一个国家安全问题--罗马天主教意味着来自意大利的影响，东正教直接来自希腊和塞尔维亚，而伊斯兰教意味着来自土耳其的干涉。允许新教徒加入意味着来自西方的干涉。当时，不仅信奉宗教是非法的，而且相信宗教也是非法的。

Hoxha’s enforcers started by burning four Franciscan priests to death, then turned mosques and churches into factories (minarets became chimneys) and shot an elderly Catholic priest for baptizing children. Hundreds of clergy were tortured and imprisoned for decades, forced to do hard labor in mines and sewage canals. Government-produced films that accused clerics of corruption, corroborating with foreign powers, and arranging forced marriages were broadcast over and over on the television channel. Newspapers mocked religious leaders on trial for being traitors.

霍查的执法者先是烧死了四名方济各会的牧师，然后把清真寺和教堂变成了工厂（尖塔变成了烟囱），并枪杀了一名为儿童施洗的天主教老牧师。数百名神职人员被折磨和监禁了数十年，被迫在矿井和下水道中做苦工。政府制作的影片指责神职人员腐败、与外国势力勾结、安排强迫婚姻，并在电视频道上反复播放。报纸嘲笑受审的宗教领袖是叛徒。

Eventually, Albania’s borders were sealed so tightly—against both the democratic West and the communist Soviet Union and China—that nobody could get in to see what was going on, much less evangelize.

But that didn’t keep the Bibles out.

最终，阿尔巴尼亚的边界被严密封锁，既反对民主的西方国家，也反对共产主义的苏联和中国，以至于没有人能够进来看看发生了什么，更不用说传福音了。

但是，这并不能阻止圣经的传播。

By Air and Sea
Albert Kona grew up in the town of Durrës, on the Adriatic Sea. In his childhood photos, you can count his ribs. He remembers his parents getting up at 2:00 a.m. to stand in line for bread or milk.

从空中和海上
阿尔伯特-科纳在亚得里亚海边的杜拉斯镇长大。在他的童年照片中，你可以数出他的肋骨。他记得他的父母在凌晨2点起床，排队买面包或牛奶。

His family had been Eastern Orthodox, though he didn’t know that. One day, when playing in an antique wooden trunk of his grandmother’s, he found part of an old book with some pages ripped out. In it, he read about Peter and John.

他的家庭一直是东正教，尽管他不知道。有一天，他在祖母的一个古董木箱里玩耍时，发现了一本被撕掉几页的旧书的一部分。在书中，他读到了关于彼得和约翰的故事。

A young Albert Kona with his mother / Courtesy of Albert Kona’s Facebook page

年轻的阿尔伯特-科纳和他的母亲/阿尔伯特-科纳的Facebook页面提供。

He wasn’t the only one to get his hands on Bible stories. After World War II, some American GIs flew over Albania and tossed out Bibles attached to parachutes. Most of them were gathered up by the government, but one man found about 12 chapters from the Gospel of Luke. “He understood who Jesus was and what Jesus had done,” said Kona, who met the man years later, after the country opened up. “He had a true and simple faith.”

他并不是唯一一个得到圣经故事的人。二战结束后，一些美国大兵飞越阿尔巴尼亚上空，将附着在降落伞上的《圣经》抛出。其中大部分被政府收集起来，但有一个人找到了《路加福音》中的大约12章。科纳说："他明白耶稣是谁，耶稣做了什么。"几年后，在国家开放后，他遇到了这个人。"他有一个真实而简单的信仰。"


In 1985, an Operation Mobilization (OM) ship anchored 12 miles off the Albanian coast, just far enough out to be in international water. Those on board dropped copies of the Gospel of Mark, freshly translated into Albanian, into gallon-sized ziplock bags. They blew each bag up with air so it would float. Then when the tide was just right, they plopped the Bibles into the water, praying they’d wash up on shore. In Kosovo, OM staff were standing on the banks of rivers that flow into Albania, doing the same thing.

1985年，一艘 "动员行动"（OM）船在距离阿尔巴尼亚海岸12英里的地方停泊，刚好在国际水域。船上的人把刚翻译成阿尔巴尼亚语的《马可福音》的副本放入加仑大小的密封袋中。他们用空气将每个袋子吹起来，使其漂浮起来。然后，当潮水正好的时候，他们把圣经投入水中，祈祷它们会被冲到岸上。在科索沃，OM的工作人员站在流入阿尔巴尼亚的河岸上，做着同样的事情。

“That was about all you could do,” Mansfield said. Some Swiss Christians had tried to smuggle Bibles in on a rare visit, but when they got to the airport, all the Bibles they’d surreptitiously given out were returned to them. “You forgot these,” the government officials said.

"曼斯菲尔德说："这就是你能做的一切。一些瑞士基督徒曾试图在一次罕见的访问中走私圣经，但当他们到达机场时，他们偷偷送出的所有圣经都被退回给他们。政府官员说："你忘了这些东西"。

Even after Hoxha died in 1985, the country remained locked down. It was another six years before the borders finally opened. It had been five decades, and nobody knew what to expect. Mansfield remembers walking to the beach on his first visit, the people moving away from him.

即使在霍查于1985年去世后，这个国家仍然被封锁。又过了六年，边界才最终开放。已经过去了五十年，没有人知道会发生什么。曼斯菲尔德还记得他第一次访问时走到海滩上，人们离他越来越远。

Don and Kathryn Mansfield began working in Albania in 1991 / Courtesy of Cru

唐和凯瑟琳-曼斯菲尔德于1991年开始在阿尔巴尼亚工作/Cru提供

Then three young men swaggered toward him, unafraid, asking questions. “Where do you come from?” “What do you do?”

“I have the most amazing job on the planet,” he told them. “I get to tell people how they can know Jesus Christ.”

然后，三个年轻人大摇大摆地走向他，毫不畏惧，问东问西。"你来自哪里？" "你是做什么的？"

"我有一份地球上最神奇的工作，"他告诉他们。"我可以告诉人们如何认识耶稣基督。"

The leader, Leonard, turned to look at his friends. “Wasn’t it five minutes ago, we were talking, and we said, ‘We have got to find someone to tell us about Jesus’?” he asked them, astonished. Then, turning to Mansfield, he offered the easiest evangelistic opening there is: “Will you tell me about Jesus?”

领队伦纳德转过身来看着他的朋友们。"不是五分钟前，我们正在谈话，我们说，'我们必须找人告诉我们关于耶稣的事'吗？"他惊讶地问他们。然后，他转向曼斯菲尔德，提供了一个最简单的传福音的开场。"你会告诉我关于耶稣的事吗？"

Stunned, Mansfield shared the gospel with the young men. Only later did he wonder how Leonard even knew to ask about Jesus. When he asked, Leonard said he used to work for the coast guard. One day while on the beach, he’d found a ziplock bag with a Gospel of Mark tucked inside.

曼斯菲尔德惊呆了，他与这些年轻人分享了福音。直到后来，他才想知道伦纳德是怎么知道要问起耶稣的。当他问起时，伦纳德说他曾经为海岸警卫队工作。有一天，他在海滩上发现了一个密封袋，里面塞着一本《马可福音》。

“God will have his way,” said Mansfield, who still tears up over the story. “When God wants to move, he’s going to move.”

曼斯菲尔德说："上帝会有他的办法，"他仍然为这个故事流泪。"当上帝想要行动的时候，他就会行动。"

‘Tell Me About Jesus’
Early missionaries to Albania quickly found that Leonard’s curiosity about Jesus wasn’t unusual. After 40 years of state atheism, 24 of those with violent enforcement, previous ties to Islam or Catholicism or Orthodoxy were weak. When one young man told his parents he’d come to faith in Jesus, they told him he couldn’t because he was Muslim—he hadn’t even known. (He stuck with Christianity.)

告诉我关于耶稣的事
早期前往阿尔巴尼亚的传教士很快发现，伦纳德对耶稣的好奇心并不罕见。经过40年的国家无神论，在那些暴力执法的人中，有24人以前与伊斯兰教或天主教或东正教的联系很薄弱。当一个年轻人告诉他的父母他要信仰耶稣时，他们告诉他不能这样做，因为他是穆斯林，他甚至不知道。(他坚持信仰基督教）。

Tammy Doçi (second from left) in a dorm room Bible study in Tirana in June 1992 / Courtesy of Tammy Doçi

1992年6月，塔米-多奇（左二）在地拉那的一个寝室里学习圣经/塔米-多奇提供

“You dream of people saying, ‘Tell me about Jesus,’ and they did,” said Tammy Doçi, who was on Campus Crusade’s first official summer mission to Albania in 1992. “We’d go into a women’s dorm room and they’d say, ‘Wait, let us go get our friends first.’ Before we knew it, we’d have 18 women packed onto the bunk beds, listening intently and asking questions.”

"你梦想着人们会说，'告诉我关于耶稣的事情'，而他们确实做到了。"塔米-多奇说，她在1992年参加了校园传道会在阿尔巴尼亚的第一个正式夏季任务。"我们走进一个女生宿舍，她们会说，'等等，让我们先去找我们的朋友'。在我们知道之前，我们会有18名妇女挤在双层床上，仔细听着并问问题。"

Patrick and Alicia Havens were on the same summer trip. “One kid looked at me, grabbed my arm, and said, ‘Hey, are you here telling people about Jesus?’” Patrick remembers. “People were so ready.”

帕特里克和艾丽西亚-哈文斯参加了同一次夏季旅行。"一个孩子看着我，抓住我的胳膊，说：'嘿，你是在这里向人们讲述耶稣吗？帕特里克回忆说。"人们是如此的准备。"

“I remember one family—we’d see them every day,” Alicia said. “The father would come over and say, ‘My son needs one more lesson. Please tell us more. Please give us a Bible, because we want to know what is true.’”

"我记得有一个家庭--我们每天都会看到他们，"艾丽西亚说。"父亲会过来说，'我儿子还需要一个教训。请告诉我们更多。请给我们一本圣经，因为我们想知道什么是真实的。

After a few months on the ground, Crusade’s summer missionaries to Europe gathered together. “We were all celebrating conversions,” she said. “We cheered over 10 in Hungary, and then like 450 in Albania. You realize, ‘Oh my goodness—something is happening here.’”

在实地工作了几个月后，十字军驻欧洲的夏季传教士聚集在一起。"我们都在庆祝信主，"她说。"我们为匈牙利的10人欢呼，然后是阿尔巴尼亚的450人。你意识到，'哦，我的天哪--这里正在发生一些事情'。"

Patrick (back row, second from right) and Alicia (back row, second from left) with Tammy Doçi (back row, middle) and an Albanian family in July 1992 / Courtesy of Tammy Doçi

帕特里克（后排右二）和艾丽西亚（后排左二）与塔米-多奇（后排中）和一个阿尔巴尼亚家庭在1992年7月/塔米-多奇提供。

One of those converts was Kona, who loved to read. His friend snagged him a New Testament from some OM missionaries. He was puzzled by the verse numbers. “I thought they were footnotes, but strangely they were at the beginning of each sentence, and there were too many of them,” he said. “Also, there was no footnote text. So I thought I had only half the book.”

科纳是这些皈依者中的一个，他喜欢阅读。他的朋友从一些OM传教士那里给他抢来了一本新约圣经。他对经文的编号感到困惑。"他说："我以为它们是脚注，但奇怪的是，它们是在每句话的开头，而且太多了。"而且，没有脚注文字。所以我以为我只读了一半的书"。

It didn’t slow him down. He stayed up all night reading. “By 4:00 a.m. I had gotten to the end of Romans, and I knew exactly who I was, what I had done, what Jesus had done, and what I needed to do,” he said. “I’d never seen anybody pray before, but for some reason I knelt by my bed and I prayed what I thought was a prayer. I felt that something happened, and I also felt a great desire to do unto others what that person had done to me by giving me that book.”

这并没有让他放慢脚步。他彻夜不眠地阅读。"他说："到了凌晨4点，我已经读到了《罗马书》的结尾，我清楚地知道我是谁，我做了什么，耶稣做了什么，以及我需要做什么。"我以前从未见过任何人祷告，但出于某种原因，我跪在床边，做了我认为是祷告的事情。我觉得有什么事情发生了，我也感到有一个很大的愿望，要像那个人给我的那本书一样，对别人做。"

The next day, he attended an OM worship service with about 40 others. He jumped right into evangelism, hospital visitation, and village outreach.

第二天，他和其他约40人一起参加了OM的敬拜仪式。他立即投入到传福音、医院探访和村庄外展活动中。

Albert Kona / Courtesy of TGC Albanian’s Facebook page

阿尔伯特-科纳/由TGC阿尔巴尼亚的Facebook页面提供

“We had what Jonathan Edwards would call a window of grace,” he said. “For about five years, if you preached a very simple gospel presentation you would have 300 people at church the next Sunday. People were very hungry, and churches were growing fast.”

"我们有乔纳森-爱德华兹所说的恩典之窗，"他说。"大约有五年时间，如果你宣讲一个非常简单的福音，下一个星期天就会有300人到教堂。人们非常饥渴，教会也在快速发展。

Some of the gospel presentations were inaccurate or messy. There probably wasn’t enough emphasis on good theology. And not every conversion was genuine—some joke that if you count all the decisions for Christ made in Albania, the country has been saved three times over.

有些人可能只是为了表示礼貌而在卡片上签名。或者，也许他们想有机会和一个外国人交谈。也许他们不知道自己在做什么。但话说回来，其中一个说他不感兴趣的年轻人后来帮助领导了TGC阿尔巴尼亚分会。


Some people might have signed a card just to be polite. Or maybe they wanted a chance to talk to a foreigner. Maybe they didn’t know what they were doing. But then again, one of the young men who said he wasn’t interested would later help lead TGC Albanian.


有些福音书的介绍不准确或很混乱。可能对好的神学强调得不够。而且，并非每一个改变都是真实的--有人开玩笑说，如果你算上阿尔巴尼亚所有为基督做出的决定，这个国家已经被拯救了三次。

TGC Albanian
“I saw the Jesus film,” said Hamza, who was 15 years old when Albania opened up. “I was like, Wow, interesting movie, but nothing changed.”

阿尔巴尼亚TGC
"我看了耶稣的电影，"哈姆扎说，阿尔巴尼亚开放时他才15岁。"我当时想，哇，有趣的电影，但没有什么改变。"

Hamza doing evangelism at a local school in 2000 / Courtesy of Asim Hamza


2000年，哈姆扎在当地学校做布道工作/阿西姆-哈姆扎提供

Hamza was barely Muslim—“it just meant I had a Muslim name”—and his grades and behavior were so terrible he got kicked out of high school. “I thought, ‘Okay, now that I’m out of school, I’ll go to Greece to work and make money,’” he said. But instead of instant riches, he was deported back to Albania for lack of proper papers.

哈姆扎几乎不是穆斯林--"这只是意味着我有一个穆斯林的名字"--他的成绩和行为非常糟糕，被高中开除了。"他说："我想，'好吧，现在我已经离开学校了，我将去希腊工作并赚钱'。但是，他并没有立即发财，而是因为没有适当的证件而被遣送回阿尔巴尼亚。

With few options, Hamza joined the army’s driving school, where he met a guy who talked about Jesus. At the same time, he began walking his little sister to the children’s programming at a local church. The pastor’s wife noticed him and asked him to stay for the young adult programs. He did, “and God really captured my heart.”

在没有选择的情况下，哈姆扎加入了军队的驾驶学校，在那里他遇到了一个谈论耶稣的人。同时，他开始陪他的小妹妹去当地教会的儿童节目。牧师的妻子注意到了他，请他留下来参加年轻人的活动。他照做了，"上帝真的抓住了我的心"。

Hamza began helping with church facilities, then gradually moved into ministry. He went to Bible school in Durrës; along the way, he found the Desiring God (DG) website. “It gave me a different, more realistic view of God. . . . I would read something and be like, ‘Yeah—that’s how God really is. He’s not a little God who tries really hard, but he is way beyond our imagination.’”

哈姆扎开始帮助教会设施，然后逐渐进入事工。他去了都拉斯的圣经学校；在路上，他发现了渴望神（DG）的网站。"它让我对上帝有了不同的、更现实的看法。. . . 我读到一些东西，就会想：'是的，上帝真的是这样的。他不是一个非常努力的小神，但他远远超出了我们的想象。

Hamza translated John Piper’s Coronavirus and Christ into Albanian in 2020 / Courtesy of Asim Hamza’s Facebook page

哈姆扎在2020年将约翰-派伯的《冠状病毒与基督》翻译成阿尔巴尼亚语/阿西姆-哈姆扎的Facebook页面提供。

He started working with DG, first translating 52 of John Piper’s sermons into Albanian, then Piper’s book on the five points of Calvinism. When Piper spoke at a missions conference in Italy in 2016, almost 60 Albanians were in attendance. The next year, at a joint TGC/DG conference in North Macedonia, the largest contingent in attendance came from Albania.

他开始与DG合作，首先将约翰-派博的52篇讲道翻译成阿尔巴尼亚语，然后是派博关于加尔文主义五点的书。2016年，当派博在意大利的一次宣教会议上发言时，有近60名阿尔巴尼亚人参加了会议。第二年，在北马其顿举行的TGC/DG联合会议上，与会的最大队伍来自阿尔巴尼亚。

One of them was Kona, who had asked so many questions about the roles of elders and deacons and pastors and teachers that someone told him he was “talking like a Presbyterian.” While looking up what that meant, he found R. C. Sproul and eventually earned a degree at Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

其中一位是科纳，他对长老、执事、牧师和教师的角色问了很多问题，以至于有人告诉他，他 "说话像长老会的人"。在查找这句话的含义时，他找到了R.C.Sproul，并最终在格林维尔长老会神学院获得了学位。

Another was Andi Dina, who came to Christ in college. He was working for the Evangelical Alliance when he came across the work of R. C. Sproul. “My heart melted immediately with these teachings,” said Dina, who planted a church in partnership with Acts 29 in 2019.

另一位是安迪-迪纳，他在大学时就信了基督。他在为福音派联盟工作时遇到了R. C. Sproul的工作。"我的心立刻被这些教义融化了，"迪纳说，他在2019年与第29章合作建立了一个教会。


Search for God
In the space of three decades, nearly all of Albania’s officially atheist population claimed or reclaimed a religion—by 2018, self-identified atheists dropped to less than 1 percent of the population. People primarily sorted themselves into their family’s pre-communist religions—about 75 percent are now Muslim, 11 percent are Catholic, and 7 percent are Orthodox. While the number of evangelicals expanded from 16 to around 17,000, they’re still less than 1 percent of the population.

寻找上帝
在三十年的时间里，几乎所有阿尔巴尼亚的官方无神论者都宣称或重拾宗教信仰--到2018年，自我认定的无神论者下降到人口的1%以下。人们主要将自己归入其家庭的前共产主义宗教--约75%的人现在是穆斯林，11%是天主教，7%是东正教。虽然福音派教徒的人数从16人扩大到约17000人，但他们仍不到人口的1%。

Evangelism is increasingly difficult as the population settles into nominalism, chases wealth, and is isolated by both COVID and smartphones. Evangelism strategies, like those in the West, are shifting to be relationship-focused.

随着人口定居于名义主义，追逐财富，并被COVID和智能手机隔离，传福音越来越困难。像西方国家一样，传福音的策略正在转变为以关系为重点。

Andi Dina speaking at the TGC conference in Durres in 2019 / Courtesy of TGC Albanian’s Facebook page

安迪-迪纳在2019年德雷斯的TGC会议上发言/TGC阿尔巴尼亚的Facebook页面提供

“Much of the fruit we want to see, we probably won’t in our lifetime,” Dina said, “We long to see a whole generation of godly pastors and leaders who deny themselves and take their cross every day—a generation of Christian leaders with a burning heart for the glory of Christ, who like John the Baptist can say, ‘He must increase, but I must decrease.’”

"我们想看到的很多果实，在我们的有生之年可能都看不到，"迪娜说，"我们渴望看到一整代敬虔的牧师和领袖，他们每天都否定自己，背起十字架--这一代的基督教领袖有一颗为基督的荣耀而燃烧的心，他们像施洗者约翰一样可以说，'他必须增加，但我必须减少'。"

“With all the problems and faults, we’re encouraged, because in almost every town, there is at least one church,” Hamza said. “The challenge is to help believers ground themselves in a true understanding of the Bible and God, not just, ‘Oh, God, can you please do this for me?’”

"在所有的问题和缺点中，我们很受鼓舞，因为几乎在每个城镇，至少有一个教会，"哈姆扎说。"我们面临的挑战是帮助信徒立足于对圣经和上帝的真正理解，而不仅仅是'哦，上帝，你能为我做这件事吗？

To that end, Dina, Hamza, and Kona are working together with other Council members on TGC Albanian, which already has a Council, a website, and a conference. They’ve translated dozens of books and hundreds of articles.

为此，迪娜、哈姆扎和科纳正与其他理事会成员一起致力于TGC阿尔巴尼亚语的工作，该组织已经有一个理事会、一个网站和一个会议。他们已经翻译了几十本书和数百篇文章。

Colin Smith speaking at the TGC conference in Albania / Courtesy of TGC Albanian’s Facebook page

科林-史密斯在阿尔巴尼亚的TGC会议上发言/TGC阿尔巴尼亚分部的Facebook页面提供

“I have quite a bit of emotion about this, and a great deal of joy,” said Colin Smith, who spoke to about 180 people gathered at TGC’s first Albanian conference in 2019. “In the 1970s, I was growing up in Edinburgh, Scotland, in a little Baptist church. We had a weekly prayer meeting, and I remember as a teen, praying for Albania. It caught my imagination—how could there be a country in Europe with no known believers?”

"我对此有相当多的感慨，也有很大的喜悦，"科林-史密斯说，他对聚集在2019年TGC第一次阿尔巴尼亚会议上的约180人讲话。"20世纪70年代，我在苏格兰爱丁堡的一个小浸信会里长大。我们每周都有一次祷告会，我记得在十几岁的时候，为阿尔巴尼亚祈祷。这引起了我的想象，在欧洲怎么会有一个国家没有已知的信徒呢？"

While he was there, “it was very clear, not only the number of Christians had grown significantly, but that the Lord is raising up a new generation of Christian leaders—and in particular, of church planters. And that’s a remarkable thing.”

当他在那里时，"很明显，不仅是基督徒的数量大幅增长，而且主正在培养新一代的基督徒领袖，特别是教会建立者。而这是一件了不起的事情"。

Sarah Eekhoff Zylstra is senior writer and faith-and-work editor for The Gospel Coalition. She is also the coauthor of Gospelbound: Living with Resolute Hope in an Anxious Age. Before that, she wrote for Christianity Today, homeschooled her children, freelanced for a local daily paper, and taught at Trinity Christian College. She earned a BA in English and communication from Dordt University and an MSJ from Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. She lives with her husband and two sons in the suburbs of Chicago, where they are active members of Orland Park Christian Reformed Church.

萨拉-埃克霍夫-齐尔斯特拉是福音联盟的高级作家和信仰与工作编辑。她也是Gospelbound一书的作者之一。在一个焦虑的时代，带着坚定的希望生活。在此之前，她为《今日基督教》撰稿，在家里教育孩子，为当地日报提供自由稿件，并在三一基督教学院任教。她在多特大学获得英语和传播学学士学位，在西北大学梅迪尔新闻学院获得MSJ学位。她与丈夫和两个儿子住在芝加哥郊区，他们是奥兰帕克基督教改革派教会的积极成员。