我这边还可以。我负责译前言和前两章，先发来前言和第一章。第二章已粗译过一稿，但还未核查。前言和第一章里面还有些问题需要处理，但大体就是这样了。

Prologue

	I love style manuals. Ever since I was assigned Strunk and White’s The Elements of Style in an introductory psychology course, the writing guide has been among my favorite literary genres. It’s not just that I welcome advice on the lifelong challenge of perfecting the craft of writing. It’s also that credible guidance on writing must itself be well written, and the best of the manuals are paragons of their own advice. William Strunk’s course notes on writing, which his student E. B. White turned into their famous little book, was studded with gems of self-exemplification such as “Write with nouns and verbs,” “Put the emphatic words of a sentence at the end,” and best of all, his prime directive, “Omit needless words.” Many eminent stylists have applied their gifts to explaining the art, including Kingsley Amis, Jacques Barzun, Ambrose Bierce, Bill Bryson, Robert Graves, Tracy Kidder, Stephen King, Elmore Leonard, F. L. Lucas, George Orwell, William Safire, and of course White himself, the beloved author of Charlotte’s Web and Stuart Little. Here is the great essayist reminiscing about his teacher:
我爱读文体手册。自从在心理学入门课上分到史壮克和怀特（Strunk & White）的名著《风格的要素》，我就爱读写作指南一类文字。不仅因为完善写作是终身之业，我自欢迎得到指导；还因为靠谱的写作指南本身得写好，最优秀的指南都是其自身建议的表率。《风格的要素》源自威廉·史壮克（William Strunk）的写作课讲义，被学生E.B.怀特（White）加工成书，身体力行自己的许多精彩建议：“用名词和动词写作”，“把着重词放到句尾”，最棒的也是首要的指令：“省掉冗词”。许多著名的文体家将其才华用于阐释写作艺术，其中包括金斯利·艾米斯（Kingsley Amis）, 雅克·巴尔赞（Jacques Barzun）, 安布罗斯·比尔斯（Ambrose Bierce）, 比尔·布莱森（Bill Bryson）, 罗伯特·格雷夫斯（Robert Graves）, 特雷西·基德尔（Tracy Kidder）,斯蒂芬·金（ Stephen King）, 埃尔莫尔·伦纳德（Elmore Leonard）, F. L. 卢卡斯（F. L. Lucas）,乔治·奥威尔（George Orwell）, 威廉·萨菲尔（William Safire）, 当然还有怀特本人，《夏洛特的网》和《小斯图亚特》广受热爱的作者。下面是这位散文大家对老师的回忆：

In the days when I was sitting in his class, he omitted so many needless words, and omitted them so forcibly and with such eagerness and obvious relish, that he often seemed in the position of having shortchanged himself—a man left with nothing more to say yet with time to fill, a radio prophet who had outdistanced the clock. Will Strunk got out of this predicament by a simple trick: he uttered every sentence three times. When he delivered his oration on brevity to the class, he leaned forward over his desk, grasped his coat lapels in his hands, and, in a husky, conspiratorial voice, said, “Rule Seventeen. Omit needless words! Omit needless words! Omit needless words!”1	

我在斯壮克课堂上渡过的那些日子里，他省掉了那么多冗词，那么激烈，那么热切，又是那么明显地享受这一过程，以至于他时常陷于尴尬：课堂时间还多的是，可没话说了。a radio prophet who had outdistanced the clock 斯壮克脱困办法很简单：每句话说三遍。在课堂上演讲到要简洁，他身体前倾，遮住讲坛，拽着大衣翻领，用大家心会的沙哑嗓音说道：“第十七条规则：省掉冗词！省掉冗词！省掉冗词！” 1

I like to read style manuals for another reason, the one that sends botanists to the garden and chemists to the kitchen: it’s a practical application of our science. I am a psycholinguist and a cognitive scientist, and what is style, after all, but the effective use of words to engage the human mind? It’s all the more captivating to someone who seeks to explain these fields to a wide readership. I think about how language works so that I can best explain how language works.

我喜欢读写作指南还有个原因，与植物学家去花园化学家进厨房的原因相同：它是我们这门科学的实际运用。我是心理语言学家和认知科学家。所谓写作风格，说到底，不就是有效运用语词来吸引人类心灵的关注吗？对试图向广大读者群解释这些学科领域的人来说，这就更使人着迷。我思考语言是怎么回事，以便解释好语言是怎么回事。

	But my professional acquaintance with language has led me to read the traditional manuals with a growing sense of unease. Strunk and White, for all their intuitive feel for style, had a tenuous grasp of grammar.2 They misdefined terms such as phrase, participle, and relative clause, and in steering their readers away from passive verbs and toward active transitive ones they botched their examples of both. There were a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground, for instance, is not in the passive voice, nor does The cock’s crow came with dawn contain a transitive verb. Lacking the tools to analyze language, they often struggled when turning their intuitions into advice, vainly appealing to the writer’s “ear.” And they did not seem to realize that some of the advice contradicted itself: “Many a tame sentence … can be made lively and emphatic by substituting a transitive in the active voice” uses the passive voice to warn against the passive voice. George Orwell, in his vaunted “Politics and the English Language,” fell into the same trap when, without irony, he derided prose in which “the passive voice is wherever possible used in preference to the active.”3

但是，正因为我对语言有专业了解，传统写作手册读来越来越感到不满。Strunk和White对写作风格很有直觉，却不大了解语法。他们对短语、分词和关系从句等术语下错误的定义；在引导读者不使用动词的被动语态，转向使用及物动词的主动语态时，他们却把两者的例句都搞错了。“有许多干枯的叶子躺在地上”，这句话就不是被动语态，“公鸡晨鸣”中也没有及物动词。由于缺少分析语言的工具，他们将个人直觉变成建议很勉强，不得不徒劳地召唤作者的“耳朵”，似乎也没发现自己的一些建议自相矛盾：“许多温吞的句子……可以通过换入主动语态的及物动词而被变得活泼有重点。”这句话反对被动语态，但本身就用了被动语态。乔治·奥威尔在广受好评的《政治与英语》中掉进了同一个陷阱，他嘲笑这一类文字，其中：“但凡可能，被动语态就优先于主动语态而被使用。” 3

	Self-contradiction aside, we now know that telling writers to avoid the passive is bad advice. Linguistic research has shown that the passive construction has a number of indispensable functions because of the way it engages a reader’s attention and memory. A skilled writer should know what those functions are and push back against copy editors who, under the influence of grammatically naïve style guides, blue-pencil every passive construction they spot into an active one.
且不论这些自相矛盾，我们现在知道，告诉作者不用被动语态是个坏建议。语言学研究表明，被动语态用特殊的方式吸引读者的注意力和记忆，因此有一些不可或缺的功能。老练的作者得懂这些，当文字编辑受语法上幼稚的传统写作手册影响，把每个被动语态都删改主动语态时，他们还得改回来。

	Style manuals that are innocent of linguistics also are crippled in dealing with the aspect of writing that evokes the most emotion: correct and incorrect usage. Many style manuals treat traditional rules of usage the way fundamentalists treat the Ten Commandments: as unerring laws chiseled in sapphire for mortals to obey or risk eternal damnation. But skeptics and freethinkers who probe the history of these rules have found that they belong to an oral tradition of folklore and myth. For many reasons, manuals that are credulous about the inerrancy of the traditional rules don’t serve writers well. Although some of the rules can make prose better, many of them make it worse, and writers are better off flouting them. The rules often mash together issues of grammatical correctness, logical coherence, formal style, and standard dialect, but a skilled writer needs to keep them straight. And the orthodox stylebooks are ill equipped to deal with an inescapable fact about language: it changes over time. Language is not a protocol legislated by an authority but rather a wiki that pools the contributions of millions of writers and speakers, who ceaselessly bend the language to their needs and who inexorably age, die, and get replaced by their children, who adapt the language in their turn.

写作中引发最多情緒反应的一件事，就是区分什么是正确用法什么不正确。那些不懂得语言学的写作手册在这件事上是跛脚的。许多写作手册对待传统用法，好比原教旨主义者维护十诫：律法永不会错，勒于蓝宝石之上，凡人只能凛遵，否则必永下地狱。但怀疑者和独立思考的人调查这些诫条的历史，却发现其属于传说和迷思的口述传统。对这些传统诫条深信不疑的写作手册，没有对作者尽到责任。有些诫条可以使文字变好，但许多只是使其变差，作者最好是藐视这些诫条，因其常常把语法的正确性、逻辑的一致性、正式的文体和标准语这些问题混在一谈，而老练的作者必须作出区分。正统写作指南也难以面对一个无法逃避的现实：语言在变。语言不是由权威部门立法规定的标准文书，而是集合了数以百万计作者、论者贡献的维基。他们时时刻刻都努力使语言适应自己，然后他们不可阻挡地老去，逝去，子子孙孙无穷尽，语言改造亦如是。

Yet the authors of the classic manuals wrote as if the language they grew up with were immortal, and failed to cultivate an ear for ongoing change. Strunk and White, writing in the early and middle decades of the twentieth century, condemned then-new verbs like personalize, finalize, host, chair, and debut, and warned writers never to use fix for “repair” or claim for “declare.” Worse, they justified their peeves with cockamamie rationalizations. The verb contact, they argued, is “vague and self-important. Do not contact people; get in touch with them, look them up, phone them, find them, or meet them.” But of course the vagueness of to contact is exactly why it caught on: sometimes a writer doesn’t need to know how one person will get in touch with another, as long as he does so. Or consider this head-scratcher, concocted to explain why a writer should never use a number word with people, only with persons: “If of ‘six people’ five went away, how many people would be left? Answer: one people.” By the same logic, writers should avoid using numbers with irregular plurals such as men, children, and teeth (“If of ‘six children’ five went away …”).
但是，经典写作手册的作者笔下，那些伴随他们长大的语言仿佛是永恒的，因此他们无法欣常正在发生的变化。在20世纪早中期，斯壮克和怀特摒弃当时新出现的动词，如个性化（personlize）、使……结束（finalize）、做东道（host）、主持（chair）、debut（初次亮相），并警示作者们永远不要用修（fix）替代“修理（repair）”，也不要用宣称（claim)替代“声明（declare）”。更糟糕的是，他们用荒谬的说辞来论证自已的好恶。比如，他们说，“动词联络（contact）含义模糊且妄尊自大，所以不能说联络别人，要说与他们接触（get in touch with them），寻找他们（look them up），给他们打电话（phone them），或者与他们会面（meet them）。”其实，联络（contact）的模糊一面正是其用处所在：有时作者并不需要知道人们之间怎样相互接触，只要是接触就行了。再看看这个让人摸不着头脑的例句，用来论证数字不能直接放在人（people）之前而只能放在个人（person）之前：“假如六个人（six people）中间有五个人离开了，那么剩下来几个人？（one people有一个民族的意思）。”按照这个说法，那就也不应该在诸如男人们（men）、孩子们（children）、牙齿（teeth）等不规则复数之前使用数字（“如果六个孩子（Children）中的五个离开了……）”

	In the last edition published in his lifetime, White did acknowledge some changes to the language, instigated by “youths” who “speak to other youths in a tongue of their own devising: they renovate the language with a wild vigor, as they would a basement apartment.” White’s condescension to these “youths” (now in their retirement years) led him to predict the passing of nerd, psyched, ripoff, dude, geek, and funky, all of which have become entrenched in the language.
在生前出的最后一版《风格的要素》里，White确实承认语言在发生一些变化。变化是”年轻人“煽动起来的，“他们用自己发明的口语与其他年轻人说话：他们以狂野的热情更新语言，就像装修地下室一样。” 怀特对这些年轻人（他们现在也已到了退休年龄）的姿态是高高在上，他预测呆子（nerd）、爽翻（psyched）、剽窃（ripoff）、老兄（dude）、极客（geek）和时髦（funky）这些词都是昙花一现，结果却全都生了根。


	The graybeard sensibilities of the style mavens come not just from an underappreciation of the fact of language change but from a lack of reflection on their own psychology. As people age, they confuse changes in themselves with changes in the world, and changes in the world with moral decline—the illusion of the good old days.4 And so every generation believes that the kids today are degrading the language and taking civilization down with it:5

写作专家们对新事物的老朽反应，不仅出自对语言变化欣赏不够，还因为缺少对自身心理状态的反省。随着年齿渐长，他们混淆了自己的变化与世界的变化，并将世界的变化与道德滑坡混为一谈——所谓过去好时光幻觉。4 每一代人都觉得当今的孩子们在糟蹋语言并顺带糟蹋了整个文明社会。5

The common language is disappearing. It is slowly being crushed to death under the weight of verbal conglomerate, a pseudospeech at once both pretentious and feeble, that is created daily by millions of blunders and inaccuracies in grammar, syntax, idiom, metaphor, logic, and common sense. … In the history of modern English there is no period in which such victory over thought-in-speech has been so widespread.—1978
公共语言正在消失，正被大堆口头语挤压至死，后者是既做作又无力的伪语言，由天天发生的无数语法、句法、成语、隐喻、逻辑和常识错误造就……在现代英语历史上，还从来没有过思想败得如此彻底的时候。——1978年

Recent graduates, including those with university degrees, seem to have no mastery of the language at all. They cannot construct a simple declarative sentence, either orally or in writing. They cannot spell common, everyday words. Punctuation is apparently no longer taught. Grammar is a complete mystery to almost all recent graduates.—1961
包括有大学学历的在内，最近的毕业生似乎根本没有掌握语言。他们不能构造出简单的陈述句，无论是口头还是笔端。他们拼写不出普通的日常词汇。标点符号用法显然就没学过。对几乎所有新近毕业生来说，语法完全是个迷。——1961年

From every college in the country goes up the cry, “Our freshmen can’t spell, can’t punctuate.” Every high school is in disrepair because its pupils are so ignorant of the merest rudiments.—1917
从全国每所大学传来怒吼：“新生不会拼写，也不会标点符号。”每间中学都处于荒废之中，因为其学生对哪怕最基本的东西都是那么无知。——1971年

The vocabularies of the majority of high-school pupils are amazingly small. I always try to use simple English, and yet I have talked to classes when quite a minority of the pupils did not comprehend more than half of what I said.—1889

大多数高中学生的词汇量惊人地小。我总是尽量用简单的语言，但就是这样，我上课时，还是有相当一部分学生听懂的不超过一半。——1889年

Unless the present progress of change [is] arrested … there can be no doubt that, in another century, the dialect of the Americans will become utterly unintelligible to an Englishman.—1833
除非逆转现在的趋势……否则，毫无疑问，一百年内，英国人就将完全听不懂美国人说的话。——1833年。

Our language (I mean the English) is degenerating very fast. … I begin to fear that it will be impossible to check it.—1785
我们的语言（我指英语）在很快堕落……我担心再也无法阻止。——1785


	Complaints about the decline of language go at least as far back as the invention of the printing press. Soon after William Caxton set up the first one in England in 1478, he lamented, “And certaynly our langage now vsed veryeth ferre from what whiche was vsed and spoken when I was borne.” Indeed, moral panic about the decline of writing may be as old as writing itself:
      人们抱怨语言的堕落，至少不晚于发明印刷机。威廉·卡克斯顿（William Caxton）1478年安装了英格兰的第一部印刷机，很快他就哀叹：“现在语言的行文和说法跟我出生时候比那当然是非常不一样了。”的确，对于文字堕落的道德恐慌大概跟文字本身一样古老：

 	  
图释：
左：啊，搞什么名堂！句子绝不能用
结尾！
右：古代语法警察

	The cartoon is not much of an exaggeration. According to the English scholar Richard Lloyd-Jones, some of the clay tablets deciphered from ancient Sumerian include complaints about the deteriorating writing skills of the young.6

这幅漫画并不怎么夸张。据英国学者理查·劳埃德-琼斯（Richard Lloyd-Jones）的研究，古代苏美尔人留下来的粘土板上，就载有对于年轻人写作技艺下降的抱怨。6


	My discomfort with the classic style manuals has convinced me that we need a writing guide for the twenty-first century. It’s not that I have the desire, to say nothing of the ability, to supplant The Elements of Style. Writers can profit by reading more than one style guide, and much of Strunk and White (as it is commonly called) is as timeless as it is charming. But much of it is not. Strunk was born in 1869, and today’s writers cannot base their craft exclusively on the advice of a man who developed his sense of style before the invention of the telephone (let alone the Internet), before the advent of modern linguistics and cognitive science, before the wave of informalization that swept the world in the second half of the twentieth century.

我对经典写作手册诸多不满，确信我们需要一个用于21世纪的写作指南。我无意更不要说有没有能力取代《风格的要素》。作者们可以从不止一个写作指南中获益，而且史壮克和怀特这本书许多部分既有魅力又经得起时间考验。不过经不起时间考验的也有许多。史壮克生于1869年，在电话机发明之前（更不要说互联网），在现代语言学和认知科学到来之前，在口语化于20世纪后半叶席卷世界之前，他对写作风格的感觉就已养成。今天的作者们学手艺，不能全靠他的建议。

	A manual for the new millennium cannot just perpetuate the diktats of earlier manuals. Today’s writers are infused by the spirit of scientific skepticism and the ethos of questioning authority. They should not be satisfied with “That’s the way it’s done” or “Because I said so,” and they deserve not to be patronized at any age. They rightly expect reasons for any advice that is foisted upon them.
    新千年的写作手册不能固化来自以前手册的诫律。今天的作者们充满科学怀疑主义和质疑权威的精神，不会满足于被告知“本来就这样”和“因为我说这样”，因为没人有资格摆出高人一等的派头。他们接到任何建议，都有权要求获知其理由。
	

Today we can provide the reasons. We have an understanding of grammatical phenomena which goes well beyond the traditional taxonomies based on crude analogies with Latin. We have a body of research on the mental dynamics of reading: the waxing and waning of memory load as readers comprehend a passage, the incrementing of their knowledge as they come to grasp its meaning, the blind alleys that can lead them astray. We have a body of history and criticism which can distinguish the rules that enhance clarity, grace, and emotional resonance from those that are based on myths and misunderstandings. By replacing dogma about usage with reason and evidence, I hope not just to avoid giving ham-fisted advice but to make the advice that I do give easier to remember than a list of dos and don’ts. Providing reasons should also allow writers and editors to apply the guidelines judiciously, mindful of what they are designed to accomplish, rather than robotically.

而今天我们能够提供理由。我们对语法现象的理解远远超出基于与拉丁语粗浅类比的传统分类学。我们对阅读的心理动力有许多研究：读者理解一段话时记忆负荷的潮汐，读者逐步掌握其含义时其知识的渐增，那些可能将读者带离正途的死胡同。我们对于历史和批评的研究，能把那些增进清晰、优雅、情感共鸣的规则与那些基于迷思和误解的规则区分开来。用理性和证据来取代教条，我不仅可以免于给出笨拙的建议，还可使我所给出的建议比注意事项清单更易记住。解释原因也能使作者和编辑贤明地应用指引，知道它们能用来做什么，而不是机械地一体凛遵。

	“The sense of style” has a double meaning. The word sense, as in “the sense of sight” and “a sense of humor,” can refer to a faculty of mind, in this case the faculties of comprehension that resonate to a well-crafted sentence. It can also refer to “good sense” as opposed to “nonsense,” in this case the ability to discriminate between the principles that improve the quality of prose and the superstitions, fetishes, shibboleths, and initiation ordeals that have been passed down in the traditions of usage.

书名“风格的感觉”有双重含义。“视觉”和“幽默感”中的感觉，指心灵的一种官能，在这里指能与精巧句子产生共鸣的理解力。感觉还指判与”胡扯（nonsense）相对应的“好判断（good sense）”，在这里指能区分两类准则，一类能改进文章质量，而另一类只是在传统用法中流传下来的迷信、癖好、切口和入门考验。

	The Sense of Style is not a reference manual in which you can find the answer to every question about hyphenation and capitalization. Nor is it a remedial guide for badly educated students who have yet to master the mechanics of a sentence. Like the classic guides, it is designed for people who know how to write and want to write better. This includes students who hope to improve the quality of their papers, aspiring critics and journalists who want to start a blog or column or series of reviews, and professionals who seek a cure for their academese, bureaucratese, corporatese, legalese, medicalese, or officialese. The book is also written for readers who seek no help in writing but are interested in letters and literature and curious about the ways in which the sciences of mind can illuminate how language works at its best.

在《风格的感觉》中，你不会找到每个关于连字符和大小写问题的答案。它不是那种参考手册。它也救不了那些学得太差连句法都不会的学生。与经典的写作指南一样，它服务那些知道怎么写还想写得更好的人，包括想提升论文质量的学生，想开博客、专栏、评论的有抱负的评论家和记者，想为学术腔、官腔、公司腔、法律腔、医学腔找解药的各类专业人士。这本书也适用于那些人，他们并不寻求写作帮助，但对文字和文学感兴趣，对心智科学会怎样揭示语言的最佳用法感到好奇。

	My focus is on nonfiction, particularly genres that put a premium on clarity and coherence. But unlike the authors of the classic guides, I don’t equate these virtues with plain words, austere expression, and formal style.7 You can write with clarity and with flair, too. And though the emphasis is on nonfiction, the explanations should be useful to fiction writers as well, because many principles of style apply whether the world being written about is real or imaginary. I like to think they might also be helpful to poets, orators, and other creative wordsmiths, who need to know the canons of pedestrian prose to flout them for rhetorical effect.

我所关注的是非虚构，特别是那些看重清晰连贯的文体类型。但与经典写作指南的作者们不同，我并不认为清晰连贯等同于直白的词汇、朴素的表达和庄重的文风。7  清楚连贯的写作也可以有风采。另外，尽管本书重点在于非虚构，其逻辑对小说作者也有帮助，风格的许多原理是普适的，不管是用于写真实的还是想象的世界。我相信这些原理也有助于诗人、演说家，以及其他有创造性的文字匠人，他们需要知道乏味文字的那些教规，以便在追求修辞效果时弃置不理。

	People often ask me whether anyone today even cares about style. The English language, they say, faces a new threat in the rise of the Internet, with its texting and tweeting, its email and chatrooms. Surely the craft of written expression has declined since the days before smartphones and the Web. You remember those days, don’t you? Back in the 1980s, when teenagers spoke in fluent paragraphs, bureaucrats wrote in plain English, and every academic paper was a masterpiece in the art of the essay? (Or was it the 1970s?) The problem with the Internet-is-making-us-illiterate theory, of course, is that bad prose has burdened readers in every era. Professor Strunk tried to do something about it in 1918, when young Elwyn White was a student in his English class at Cornell.
人们常问我现在还有谁在意写作风格。他们说，互联网时代来临，短信、推特、电邮、聊天室，英语面临着新威胁。要按这个逻辑，早在智能手机和Web出现之前，写作技艺就已衰亡。还记得那些好日子吗？1980年代，就连小孩子都说得出流利的段落，官员都写得一手好文章，每篇学术论文都是文章写作的精品？（等等，这些好日子是在1970年代吧？）互联网使我们变文盲这种论调的问题，在于每个时代都有烂文章折磨读者。史壮克教授早在1918年就想一纠时弊，那时，年轻的埃尔文·怀特还在其康奈尔大学英文课堂上。

	What today’s doomsayers fail to notice is that the very trends they deplore consist in oral media—radio, telephones, and television—giving way to written ones. Not so long ago it was radio and television that were said to be ruining the language. More than ever before, the currency of our social and cultural lives is the written word. And no, not all of it is the semiliterate ranting of Internet trolls. A little surfing will show that many Internet users value language that is clear, grammatical, and competently spelled and punctuated, not just in printed books and legacy media but in e-zines, blogs, Wikipedia entries, consumer reviews, and even a fair proportion of email. Surveys have shown that college students are writing more than their counterparts in earlier generations did, and that they make no more errors per page of writing.8 And contrary to an urban legend, they do not sprinkle their papers with smileys and instant-messaging abbreviations like IMHO and L8TR, any more than previous generations forgot how to use prepositions and articles out of the habit of omitting them from their telegrams. Members of the Internet generation, like all language users, fit their phrasing to the setting and audience, and have a good sense of what is appropriate in formal writing.
今天的末日预言家们没看到，他们所哀叹的趋势，存在于口头媒体（电台、电话、电视台）向书面媒体让路的潮流之中。不久以前被说是要毁掉语言的还是电台和电视。今天，我们的社会和文化生活比史上任何时候都要更依赖书面语言。这些书面语言可不都是互联网怪兽的半文盲臆语。随意浏览一下就会发现，许多互联网用户重视行文清楚、合乎语法、拼写和断句正确，这要求不光是对书和传统媒体，对电子杂志、博客、维基辞条、消费者评测，甚至对邮件也一样。调查显示，现今大学生写得比以前多，平均每页纸犯下的文字错误却并不更多。8 与人云亦云的传说相反，这一代的大学生在论文里乱用笑脸图标和社交网络缩略语如IMHO和L8TR，这种事干得并不比上一代学生们忘记的介词和冠词更多——而上一代学生们这样是因为发电报省词省习惯了。互联网一代，像所有语言使用者一样，知道遣词造句得适应情景和受众，也理解正式文本中怎样才是得体。

	Style still matters, for at least three reasons. First, it ensures that writers will get their messages across, sparing readers from squandering their precious moments on earth deciphering opaque prose. When the effort fails, the result can be calamitous—as Strunk and White put it, “death on the highway caused by a badly worded road sign, heartbreak among lovers caused by a misplaced phrase in a well-intentioned letter, anguish of a traveler expecting to be met at a railroad station and not being met because of a slipshod telegram.” Governments and corporations have found that small improvements in clarity can prevent vast amounts of error, frustration, and waste,9 and many countries have recently made clear language the law of the land.10
风格仍然重要，至少有三个原因。第一，它确保作者能传达其信息，使读者免于浪费宝贵生命来解码含混文字。而失败的结果可能是灾难——正如史壮克和怀特所说：“路牌写错导致高速公路上发生死亡事件，一封真心诚意的情书因为短语放错位置而致情人心碎，电报写得马虎结果到火车站接不到人。”政府和公司都发现，行文每清楚一分，都可以预防大量错误、挫折和浪费，9 许多国家近来还把写作需清晰写入法律。10
 
Second, style earns trust. If readers can see that a writer cares about consistency and accuracy in her prose, they will be reassured that the writer cares about those virtues in conduct they cannot see as easily. Here is how one technology executive explains why he rejects job applications filled with errors of grammar and punctuation: “If it takes someone more than 20 years to notice how to properly use it’s, then that’s not a learning curve I’m comfortable with.”11 And if that isn’t enough to get you to brush up your prose, consider the discovery of the dating site OkCupid that sloppy grammar and spelling in a profile are “huge turn-offs.” As one client said, “If you’re trying to date a woman, I don’t expect flowery Jane Austen prose. But aren’t you trying to put your best foot forward?”12

第二，风格赢得信任。作者行文注重一贯、准确，读者看了会相信作者在其他不那么容易识别的地方也会同样自我要求。一位技术公司经理解释为什么拒掉那些满是语法和断句错误的简历：“如果得花20多年还不知道it’s的正确用法，那么我受不了这样的学习曲线。”11 如果这还不够激励你改进写作，看看这个：约会网站OKCupid发现，自我介绍的语法和拼写糟糕，那么潜在的约会对象兴趣大减。一个用户说：“我不指望你写得像简·奥斯汀，但为什么不努力给人留个好印象？”

	Style, not least, adds beauty to the world. To a literate reader, a crisp sentence, an arresting metaphor, a witty aside, an elegant turn of phrase are among life’s greatest pleasures. And as we shall see in the first chapter, this thoroughly impractical virtue of good writing is where the practical effort of mastering good writing must begin.
最后但绝非最不重要的，风格给世界增加美。对有文化的读者，读到清脆的句子、吸引人的比喻、俏皮的旁白、优雅的转折，可谓生活中最大的愉快。我们将在第一章看到，好文章这条完全不实用的优点，正是掌握写好文章这一实用努力的起点。

	  
	Chapter 1

	Good Writing

	REVERSE-ENGINEERING GOOD PROSE AS THE KEY TO DEVELOPING A WRITERLY EAR
第一章
好文章
逆向工程解密好文章，调教出作者的耳朵

	“Education is an admirable thing,” wrote Oscar Wilde, “but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.”1 In dark moments while writing this book, I sometimes feared that Wilde might be right. When I polled some accomplished writers about which style manuals they had consulted during their apprenticeships, the most common answer I got was “none.” Writing, they said, just came naturally to them.
“教育是好，”王尔德写道：“只是得时常记住，凡是值得知道的都不可能被教会。”1 在写这本书的黑暗时分，我有时担心王尔德是对的。我问过一些成名作者，在他们的学徒年代曾参考过哪些写作指南，最多的答案是“没有”。他们说，他们自然而然就会写。

	I’d be the last to doubt that good writers are blessed with an innate dose of fluency with syntax and memory for words. But no one is born with skills in English composition per se. Those skills may not have come from stylebooks, but they must have come from somewhere.
我绝不怀疑好作者句法晓畅词汇丰富有其内因，但不存在天生的英文写作技巧这回事。这些技巧也许不是来自于写作指南，但肯定是来自什么地方。

	That somewhere is the writing of other writers. Good writers are avid readers. They have absorbed a vast inventory of words, idioms, constructions, tropes, and rhetorical tricks, and with them a sensitivity to how they mesh and how they clash. This is the elusive “ear” of a skilled writer—the tacit sense of style which every honest stylebook, echoing Wilde, confesses cannot be explicitly taught. Biographers of great authors always try to track down the books their subjects read when they were young, because they know these sources hold the key to their development as writers.
这个什么地方，就是其他作者的作品。好作者是贪婪的读者。他们吸收库存大量字词、成语、构造、比喻和修辞技巧，彼此如何啮合如何碰撞的感觉随之而至。这就是好作者的“耳朵”——难以言表的隐性感觉。诚实的写作手册都响应王尔德的说法，承认它无法像显性知识一样传授。伟大作家的传记作者们都得追溯传主年轻时代读过的书单，因为这里有他成长的钥匙。

	I would not have written this book if I did not believe, contra Wilde, that many principles of style really can be taught. But the starting point for becoming a good writer is to be a good reader. Writers acquire their technique by spotting, savoring, and reverse-engineering examples of good prose. The goal of this chapter is to provide a glimpse of how that is done. I have picked four passages of twenty-first-century prose, diverse in style and content, and will think aloud as I try to understand what makes them work. My intent is not to honor these passages as if I were bestowing a prize, nor to hold them up as models for you to emulate. It’s to illustrate, via a peek into my stream of consciousness, the habit of lingering over good writing wherever you find it and reflecting on what makes it good.

如果不是与王尔德看法不同，认为许多风格的准则确实可以传授，我是不会写这本书的，（不过）先做好读者是做好作者的起点。作者在阅读中发现、欣赏、逆向工程好作品，以获得自己的技巧。本章的目标是管窥它如何实现的过程。我选取作于21世纪、风格和内容迥异的四篇作品，然后自言自语，一路上理解他们好在何处。我的目的不在于给这些文章颁奖，也不是把他们树作必须模仿的典范，而是通过偷窥我自己的意识流展示一个习惯：遇到好文章，便流连不去，反思其好在哪里。

	Savoring good prose is not just a more effective way to develop a writerly ear than obeying a set of commandments; it’s a more inviting one. Much advice on style is stern and censorious. A recent bestseller advocated “zero tolerance” for errors and brandished the words horror, satanic, ghastly, and plummeting standards on its first page. The classic manuals, written by starchy Englishmen and rock-ribbed Yankees, try to take all the fun out of writing, grimly adjuring the writer to avoid offbeat words, figures of speech, and playful alliteration. A famous piece of advice from this school crosses the line from the grim to the infanticidal: “Whenever you feel an impulse to perpetrate a piece of exceptionally fine writing, obey it—wholeheartedly—and delete it before sending your manuscript to press. Murder your darlings.”2

要培养作者的耳朵，欣赏好文章不仅比遵循诫条更有效，还更诱人。许多关于风格的建议既严厉又挑剔。最近的一本畅销书主张对错误“零容忍”，第一页里就挥舞着恐怖、恶魔般的、糟透了、跌破底线这些严词。僵硬的英国人和顽固的美国人写的那些经典写作手册，严肃要求作者回避标新立异的词汇、修辞手法和活泼的头韵法，夺走了写作所有的趣味。这个门派有条著名建议，已然跨越了严肃与杀婴的界线：“但凡有冲动写篇异常漂亮的文章，那就写——全身心地写——但在付印之前把它删掉。要干掉你的宠儿。”2

	An aspiring writer could be forgiven for thinking that learning to write is like negotiating an obstacle course in boot camp, with a sergeant barking at you for every errant footfall. Why not think of it instead as a form of pleasurable mastery, like cooking or photography? Perfecting the craft is a lifelong calling, and mistakes are part of the game. Though the quest for improvement may be informed by lessons and honed by practice, it must first be kindled by a delight in the best work of the masters and a desire to approach their excellence.
照此理解的话，学习写作就好比在新兵训练营里努力越过障碍物，每次失足耳边都传来教官的咆哮。为什么不能将其视作如厨艺或者摄影一般愉悦的学习过程？完善技艺需要持续终身，错误是旅程的一部分。尽管获得进步需要教训的提示，经由练习的磨练，但它必须首先要由欣赏大师杰作带来的愉悦点燃，要由想要与大师比肩的欲望点燃。
	  
We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones. Most people are never going to die because they are never going to be born. The potential people who could have been here in my place but who will in fact never see the light of day outnumber the sand grains of Arabia. Certainly those unborn ghosts include greater poets than Keats, scientists greater than Newton. We know this because the set of possible people allowed by our DNA so massively exceeds the set of actual people. In the teeth of these stupefying odds it is you and I, in our ordinariness, that are here.
我们都会死，因此都是幸运儿。绝大多数人永不会死，因为他们从未出生。那些本可能取代我的位置但事实上从未见过天日的人，数量多过阿拉伯半岛沙粒。那些从未出生的魂灵中，定然有超越济慈的诗人、比牛顿更卓越的科学家。DNA组合所允许的人类之数，远远超过曾活过的所有人数。你和我，尽管如此平凡，从这概率低得令人眩晕的命运之齿中逃脱，来到世间。

	In the opening lines of Richard Dawkins’s Unweaving the Rainbow, the uncompromising atheist and tireless advocate of science explains why his worldview does not, as the romantic and the religious fear, extinguish a sense of wonder or an appreciation of life.3

在《解析彩虹》一书的开篇，理查·道金斯（Richard Dawkins），这位绝不妥协的无神论者和不知疲倦的科学辩护人解释道，为什么他的世界观没有像浪漫主义者和宗教信徒们担心的那样，扑灭新奇感和对生命的礼赞。3
	We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones. Good writing starts strong. Not with a cliché (“Since the dawn of time”), not with a banality (“Recently, scholars have been increasingly concerned with the question of …”), but with a contentful observation that provokes curiosity. The reader of Unweaving the Rainbow opens the book and is walloped with a reminder of the most dreadful fact we know, and on its heels a paradoxical elaboration. We’re lucky because we’ll die? Who wouldn’t want to find out how this mystery will be solved? The starkness of the paradox is reinforced by the diction and meter: short, simple words, a stressed monosyllable followed by six iambic feet.*

“我们都会死，因此都是幸运儿。”好文章开头得有力。道金斯不是用陈词滥调开头，如“自历史开始以来”、“近来，学者们越来越担忧这个问题……”，而是用有内容的观察能激发强烈好奇心的开头。《解析彩虹》的读者一打开书，就被最可怕的事实当头一击，接踵而来一个自相矛盾的阐释：我们会死所以是幸运儿？谁会不想知道怎样解开这个谜团？简洁的发音和格律进一步强调了悖论之严酷：用词短而简单，一个单音节词后是六个抑扬格音步。

	Most people are never going to die. The resolution to the paradox—that a bad thing, dying, implies a good thing, having lived—is explained with parallel constructions: never going to die … never going to be born. The next sentence restates the contrast, also in parallel language, but avoids the tedium of repeating words yet again by juxtaposing familiar idioms that have the same rhythm: been here in my place … see the light of day.

“绝大多数人永不会死。”死亡是坏事，但隐含着活过，又是件好事——一个排比句解开了悖论：绝不会死……从未出生。接下来又用了排比重申这一对比，但通过并列节奏相同的成语避免了重复：本有可能取代我的位置……（从未）见过天日。

	the sand grains of Arabia. A touch of the poetic, better suited to the grandeur that Dawkins seeks to invoke than a colorless adjective like massive or enormous. The expression is snatched from the brink of cliché by its variant wording (sand grains rather than sands) and by its vaguely exotic feel. The phrase sands of Arabia, though common in the early nineteenth century, has plunged in popularity ever since, and there is no longer even a place that is commonly called Arabia; we refer to it as Saudi Arabia or the Arabian Peninsula.4

“阿拉伯半岛的沙粒”。诗意的表达，比巨大的或者庞大的那类无色彩的形容词更好地引出道金斯想要的那般壮丽。这一表达采用语词变化（沙粒而不是沙子），略带异国风情，没有陷入陈辞滥调。阿拉伯半岛的沙子，这一表达虽然在19世纪早期时比较常见，但自那以来不再流行，而且现今已没有一个公认的地方叫作阿拉伯半岛；我们把它叫作沙特阿拉伯或者阿拉伯的半岛。4

	unborn ghosts. A vivid image to convey the abstract notion of a mathematically possible combination of genes, and a wily repurposing of a supernatural concept to advance a naturalistic argument.

“未出生的灵魂”。用鲜活的意象传达基因组合所有数学上的可能这一抽象观念，也狡猾地征用了一个超自然的概念，来推进一个自然主义的论述。

	greater poets than Keats, scientists greater than Newton. Parallel wording is a powerful trope, but after dying and being born, being here in my place and seeing the light of day, enough is enough. To avoid monotony Dawkins inverts the structure of one of the lines in this couplet. The phrase subtly alludes to another meditation on unrealized genius, “Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest,” from Thomas Gray’s “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.”

“超越济慈的诗人，比牛顿更卓越的科学家。”排比是很有力的修辞方法，但在死亡和出生之后，在本有可能取代我的位置和从未见过天日之后，怎么也是够了。为避免单调，道金斯倒置了这一对句中的一句，并淡淡地提示出关于未得现世天才的另一则沉思：“这里也许栖息着一些无名的弥尔顿，”托马斯·格雷（Thomas Gray），《乡村教堂墓地写下的挽歌》。

	In the teeth of these stupefying odds. The idiom brings to mind the menacing gape of a predator, reinforcing our gratitude for being alive: to come into existence we narrowly escaped a mortal threat, namely the high odds against it. How high? Every writer faces the challenge of finding a superlative in the English word-hoard that has not been inflated by hyperbole and overuse. In the teeth of these incredible odds? In the teeth of these awesome odds? Meh. Dawkins has found a superlative—to render into a stupor, to make stupid—that still has the power to impress.

“从这概率低得令人眩晕的命运之齿中”。这个成语将捕食者恐怖的大嘴带到眼前，使我们对活着更加心怀感激：我们得以存在，险险逃脱了于致命的威胁，因为极高的概率是我们本不会出生。到底多高？这对所有作者都是挑战，要从英语词库里找到还没有被夸张和滥用毁掉的最高级词汇。“从这概率低得难以想象的命运之齿中”？“从这概率低得令人惊惧的命运之齿中”？不。使人们头晕目眩，使人变蠢——道金斯找到了一个还能使人印象深刻的最高级词汇。

	Good writing can flip the way the world is perceived, like the silhouette in psychology textbooks which oscillates between a goblet and two faces. In six sentences Dawkins has flipped the way we think of death, and has stated a rationalist’s case for an appreciation of life in words so stirring that many humanists I know have asked that it be read at their funerals.

	 好的写作能翻转看世界的角度，就好像心理学教材里既可看作高脚杯又可看作两张脸的剪影。在刚才的六个句子里，道金斯翻转了我们对死亡的认知，表达了一个理性主义者对生命的礼赞，所用的语言令人如此触动，仅仅我自己，就知道有许多人文主义者要求在自己将来的葬礼上读这些话。

What is it that makes a person the very person that she is, herself alone and not another, an integrity of identity that persists over time, undergoing changes and yet still continuing to be—until she does not continue any longer, at least not unproblematically?

什么使一个人成为她所是的那个人，只是她自己而不是别人？什么使得一个人的同一性恒久完整？什么使得一个人经历改变但仍然如是，直到她再也无法——至少并非不成问题地——如是？

I stare at the picture of a small child at a summer’s picnic, clutching her big sister’s hand with one tiny hand while in the other she has a precarious hold on a big slice of watermelon that she appears to be struggling to have intersect with the small o of her mouth. That child is me. But why is she me? I have no memory at all of that summer’s day, no privileged knowledge of whether that child succeeded in getting the watermelon into her mouth. It’s true that a smooth series of contiguous physical events can be traced from her body to mine, so that we would want to say that her body is mine; and perhaps bodily identity is all that our personal identity consists in. But bodily persistence over time, too, presents philosophical dilemmas. The series of contiguous physical events has rendered the child’s body so different from the one I glance down on at this moment; the very atoms that composed her body no longer compose mine. And if our bodies are dissimilar, our points of view are even more so. Mine would be as inaccessible to her—just let her try to figure out [Spinoza’s] Ethics—as hers is now to me. Her thought processes, prelinguistic, would largely elude me.
我注视着这幅照片。夏日野餐中的小女孩，一只小手紧紧抓住大姐姐，另一只手颤巍巍拿着一大片西瓜，小嘴张成O型，将将咬到。这个小女孩就是我。但为什么她是我？我完全不记得那个夏日，对那个小女孩有没有成功将西瓜吃进嘴里也无亲知。确实，从那个小女孩的身体到今日之我的身体，存在着一个连续物理事件的平滑序列，也许身体的同一性正是我们个体的同一性恓身之所。但是，此身于时光中如一也带来哲学悖论。那个连续物理事件的平滑序列，使小女孩的身体与此刻我自视所见的身体如此不同；那构成她身体的原子，不再构成我的身体。而且，如果说我们的身体不一样，那我们的观念就更不一样。我的观念对于她——让她了解斯宾诺莎伦理学试试看——就如同她的观念对于我一样难以懂得。她的前语言的思维过程，大多在我的理解之外。

Yet she is me, that tiny determined thing in the frilly white pinafore. She has continued to exist, survived her childhood illnesses, the near-drowning in a rip current on Rockaway Beach at the age of twelve, other dramas. There are presumably adventures that she—that is that I—can’t undergo and still continue to be herself. Would I then be someone else or would I just no longer be? Were I to lose all sense of myself—were schizophrenia or demonic possession, a coma or progressive dementia to remove me from myself—would it be I who would be undergoing those trials, or would I have quit the premises? Would there then be someone else, or would there be no one?
然而，那个穿着白色褶边围裙的下定决心的小东西，毕竟是我。她继续存在，经历了各种儿时疾病、12岁时差点在罗卡威海滩的激流中溺水，以及其他险情。可以想见，假如发生的是别的奇遇，她——也就是说我——将不再是她自己。那我会变成另外一个人还是会不再存在？如果我丧失对自己的所有感知——不管是因为精神分裂还是邪灵附体，因为昏迷还是日渐痴呆——那个经历这些考验的还是我吗？还是说我已灵魂脱窍？那存在的是另一个人？还是谁也不存在？

Is death one of those adventures from which I can’t emerge as myself? The sister whose hand I am clutching in the picture is dead. I wonder every day whether she still exists. A person whom one has loved seems altogether too significant a thing to simply vanish altogether from the world. A person whom one loves is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world. How can worlds like these simply cease altogether? But if my sister does exist, then what is she, and what makes that thing that she now is identical with the beautiful girl laughing at her little sister on that forgotten day?

死亡是否那样一种奇遇，我不可能从中归来而仍是我自己？我在照片中紧紧抓住手的那个姐姐已经死了。我每天都在想她是否仍然存在。被爱过的人似乎总是那么重要，不会从世界上就这样完全消失。你爱过的人是一个世界，如同你知道自己也是一个世界。这样的世界怎么可能就此完全终结？但是，如果我的姐姐仍然存在，那么她是什么？又是什么，能使得她现今的存在，与那个已被淡忘的日子里对小妹妹微笑的美丽女孩，是同一个人？

	In this passage from Betraying Spinoza, the philosopher and novelist Rebecca Newberger Goldstein (to whom I am married) explains the philosophical puzzle of personal identity, one of the problems that engaged the Dutch-Jewish thinker who is the subject of her book.5 Like her fellow humanist Dawkins, Goldstein analyzes the vertiginous enigma of existence and death, but their styles could not be more different—a reminder of the diverse ways that the resources of language can be deployed to illuminate a topic. Dawkins’s could fairly be called masculine, with its confrontational opening, its cold abstractions, its aggressive imagery, its glorification of alpha males. Goldstein’s is personal, evocative, reflective, yet intellectually just as rigorous.

这段文字摘自《背叛斯宾诺莎》，哲学家和小说家瑞贝卡·纽伯格·戈德斯坦（Rebecca Newberger Goldstein，也是我的妻子）解释了个体同一性的哲学之谜。这个问题吸引了斯宾诺莎，定居荷兰的犹太思想家、书中的主人公。5 与人道主义者同仁道金斯一样，戈德斯坦分析了生存与死亡令人眩晕的谜题，但两者的风格差别之大，说明语言的资源丰饶，足以用多种方式来阐明同一个主题。道金斯的写法是男性的：咄咄逼人的开头、冷酷的抽象、挑衅的意象、对雄性领袖的赞美。戈德斯坦的写法是个人的，唤起记忆，反思，而有着同样严格缜密的智识。

	at least not unproblematically. The categories of grammar reflect the building blocks of thought—time, space, causality, matter—and a philosophical wordsmith can play with them to awaken her readers to metaphysical conundrums. Here we have an adverb, unproblematically, modifying the verb continue, an ellipsis for continue to be. Ordinarily to be is not the kind of verb that can be modified by an adverb. To be or not to be—it’s hard to see shades of gray there. The unexpected adverb puts an array of metaphysical, theological, and personal questions on the table before us.
“at least not unproblematically.” 至少并非不成问题地。”语法的分类反映思维的构件——时间、空间、因果、材料。哲学作者可运用它们以唤醒读者注意到形而上学难题。这里出现了一个副词：“unproblematically不成问题地”，修饰继续，也就是继续存在的缩略语。存在这类动词通常不能用副词来修饰——存在或者不存在，两者之间没有渐变。这个副词的意外出现，将形而上学的、神学的和个人的问题阵列摆到桌面上来。

	a big slice of watermelon that she appears to be struggling to have intersect with the small o of her mouth. Good writing is understood with the mind’s eye.6 The unusual description of the familiar act of eating in terms of its geometry—a piece of fruit intersecting with an o—forces the reader to pause and conjure a mental image of the act rather than skating over a verbal summary. We find the little girl in the photograph endearing not because the author has stooped to telling us so with words like cute or adorable but because we can see her childlike mannerisms for ourselves—as the author herself is doing when pondering the little alien who somehow is her. We see the clumsiness of a small hand manipulating an adult-sized object; the determination to master a challenge we take for granted; the out-of-sync mouth anticipating the sweet, juicy reward. The geometric language also prepares us for the prelinguistic thinking that Goldstein introduces in the next paragraph: we regress to an age at which “to eat” and even “to put in your mouth” are abstractions, several levels removed from the physical challenge of making an object intersect with a body part.
“另一只手颤巍巍拿着一大片西瓜，小嘴张成O型，将将咬到” 好文章能通过想象理解。6 寻常的吃西瓜用了不寻常的几何学词汇来表达：一大片西瓜与张开的口型O相切。这迫使读者停下并在脑海中想象出这一幕，而不是浮光掠影翻过去。我们觉得照片中的小女孩可爱，不是因为作者屈尊用了“可爱”、“迷人”这些词，而是因为我们想象得出她稚气的举止，就像作者想象这个出于某种原因就是她本人的小外星人时一样。我们看到一只小手笨笨地想要拿住大件；看到她要对付一个对大人不成问题的挑战的决心；看到张大到错位的小嘴巴，期待满嘴的香甜。使用几何学语言，也使读者为戈德斯坦下一段要介绍的前语言的思维作好准备。

	That child is me. But why is she me? … [My point of view] would be as inaccessible to her … as hers is now to me. … There are presumably adventures that she—that is that I—can’t undergo and still continue to be herself. Would I then be someone else? Goldstein repeatedly juxtaposes nouns and pronouns in the first and third person: that child … me; she … I … herself; I … someone else. The syntactic confusion about which grammatical person belongs in which phrase reflects our intellectual confusion about the very meaning of the concept “person.” She also plays with to be, the quintessentially existential verb, to engage our existential puzzlement: Would I then be someone else or would I just no longer be? … Would there then be someone else, or would there be no one?
这个小女孩就是我。但为什么她就是我？……我的观念对于她，就如同她的观念对于我一样难以理解。……可以想见，假如发生的是其他奇遇，她——也就是说我——不可能还是她自己。那我会变成另外一个人吗？戈德斯坦反复地并列使用第一和第三人称的名词和代词：那个孩子……我；她……我……她自己；我……其他人。哪个语法人称对应哪个短语，有句法的混淆，却恰好反映了我们对于“人”的意义本来就存在智识混淆。她还运用了“存在”这个经典的动词，以吸引我们的存在主义困惑：我会变成另外一个人吗？我会因此不再存在吗……那存在的是另一个人？还是谁也不存在？


	frilly white pinafore. The use of an old-fashioned word for an old-fashioned garment helps date the snapshot for us, without the cliché faded photograph.
“带褶边的白围裙。” 用一个老式的词来形容一件老式的衣服，帮助确定了照片的年代，而无需用褪色照片这种陈词。

	The sister whose hand I am clutching in the picture is dead. After eighteen sentences that mix wistful nostalgia with abstract philosophizing, the reverie is punctured by a stark revelation. However painful it must have been to predicate the harsh word dead of a beloved sister, no euphemism—has passed away, is no longer with us—could have ended that sentence. The topic of the discussion is how we struggle to reconcile the indubitable fact of death with our incomprehension of the possibility that a person can no longer exist. Our linguistic ancestors parlayed that incomprehension into euphemisms like passed on in which death consists of a journey to a remote location. Had Goldstein settled for these weasel words, she would have undermined her analysis before it began.

“我在照片中紧紧抓住手的那个姐姐已经死了。”前面18个句子混合了伤感的回忆和抽象的哲思，然后暇思被残酷的披露打断。不管说亲爱姐姐死了多么令人痛苦，用委婉的词汇——逝去、离世——在此是无法结尾的。这里讨论的主题是我们怎样努力弥合死亡之不容置疑与对斯人已逝的无法理解。先人们曾创造出委婉的词汇，如“去了”，似乎死亡是朝向远方的旅行。假如戈德斯坦也采纳了这类推诿的修饰，那她的分析还没开始就被自己毁掉了。

	I wonder every day whether she still exists. A person whom one has loved seems altogether too significant a thing to simply vanish altogether from the world. A person whom one loves is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world. How can worlds like these simply cease altogether? This passage fills my eyes every time I read it, and not just because it is about a sister-in-law I will never meet. With a spare restatement of what philosophers call the hard problem of consciousness (A person … is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world), Goldstein creates an effect that is richly emotional. The puzzlement in having to make sense of this abstract philosophical conundrum mingles with the poignancy of having to come to terms with the loss of someone we love. It is not just the selfish realization that we have been robbed of their third-person company, but the unselfish realization that they have been robbed of their first-person experience.

“我每天都在想她是否仍然存在。被爱过的人似乎总是那么重要，不会从世界上这就样完全消失。你爱过的人是一个世界，如同你知道自己也是一个世界。这样的世界怎么可能就此完全终结？”每次读到这段话都令我泪水盈眶，不仅是因为写的是我从未遇过的妻姐。哲学家们称之为关于意识的难题经过简洁重述，创造了富含情感的效果。理解这个抽象哲学难题之惑，与不得不接受我们所爱的人已逝的辛酸，混杂在一起。这不仅是“自私”的认识：他们被命运从我们这里夺走；也是“不自私”的认识：他们自己的存在体验也被夺走了。

	The passage also reminds us of the overlap in techniques for writing fiction and nonfiction. The interweaving of the personal and the philosophical in this excerpt is being used as an expository device, to help us understand the issues that Spinoza wrote about. But it is also a theme that runs through Goldstein’s fiction, namely that the obsessions of academic philosophy—personal identity, consciousness, truth, will, meaning, morality—are of a piece with the obsessions of human beings as they try to make sense of their lives.
这些文字提醒我们注意虚构与非虚构写作技巧的重合之处。引文中个人与哲学思考交织，以用作解释工具，帮助我们理解斯宾诺莎所写的主题。但它也是贯穿戈德斯坦虚构部分的主题，也就是对于学院哲学——个体同一性、意识、真理、意志、意义、道德——的迷醉，与人们试图找到其生命意义的那种迷醉，本是一体。  

MAURICE SENDAK, AUTHOR OF SPLENDID NIGHTMARES, DIES AT 83
莫利斯·森达克，《华丽的噩梦》作者，终年83岁
Maurice Sendak, widely considered the most important children’s book artist of the 20th century, who wrenched the picture book out of the safe, sanitized world of the nursery and plunged it into the dark, terrifying, and hauntingly beautiful recesses of the human psyche, died on Tuesday in Danbury, Conn. …
莫利斯·森达克被视作20世纪最重要儿童书艺术家，他把图画书从安全、净化过的育儿室猛然拉出，掷入暗黑、恐怖而又有令人战栗之美的人类心理幽深之处。他于周二在康尼迭格州丹伯利去世……

Roundly praised, intermittently censored, and occasionally eaten, Mr. Sendak’s books were essential ingredients of childhood for the generation born after 1960 or thereabouts, and in turn for their children.
广受赞誉，时不时受审查，偶尔被老鼠吃掉，森达克先生的书是1960年代前后出生的那一代人及其儿女的童年不可缺少的一部分。

PAULINE PHILLIPS, FLINTY ADVISER TO MILLIONS AS DEAR ABBY, DIES AT 94

保琳·菲利普斯，燧石般冷峻的顾问，用化名“亲爱的艾比”为千百万人提供人生指南，终年94岁。

Dear Abby: My wife sleeps in the raw. Then she showers, brushes her teeth and fixes our breakfast—still in the buff. We’re newlyweds and there are just the two of us, so I suppose there’s really nothing wrong with it. What do you think?—Ed  

亲爱的艾比：我妻子祼睡。然后淋浴，刷牙，做早饭——一直都光着身子。我们刚结婚，家里也只有我们俩，我猜这样真的没事对吧？你觉得呢？——埃德

Dear Ed: It’s O.K. with me. But tell her to put on an apron when she’s frying bacon.
亲爱的埃德：对我是没问题。不过得告诉她要穿关围裙煎培根。

Pauline Phillips, a California housewife who nearly 60 years ago, seeking something more meaningful than mah-jongg, transformed herself into the syndicated columnist Dear Abby—and in so doing became a trusted, tart-tongued adviser to tens of millions—died on Wednesday in Minneapolis. …

加州主妇保琳·菲利普斯，大约60年前想找点比麻将更有意义的事情做，结果化身为报业辛迪加专栏作家“亲爱的艾比”、深孚万千读者信任的刀子嘴顾问。她周三于明尼安波利斯去世。

With her comic and flinty yet fundamentally sympathetic voice, Mrs. Phillips helped wrestle the advice column from its weepy Victorian past into a hard-nosed 20th-century present. …
以幽默、冷峻但根上富有同情的口吻，菲利普斯女士将人生指南专栏从维多利亚式的泪汪汪风格带入了20世纪的强硬风格。

Dear Abby: Our son married a girl when he was in the service. They were married in February and she had an 8 1/2-pound baby girl in August. She said the baby was premature. Can an 8 1/2-pound baby be this premature?—Wanting to Know  
亲爱的艾比：我们的儿子服役时娶了个女孩，他们2月间结婚，8月就产下8磅半的女婴。她说是早产。8磅半也能算早产吗？——我想知道

Dear Wanting: The baby was on time. The wedding was late. Forget it.
想知道先生：婴儿准点，婚礼晚点。让它去吧。

Mrs. Phillips began her life as the columnist Abigail Van Buren in 1956. She quickly became known for her astringent, often genteelly risqué, replies to queries that included the marital, the medical, and sometimes both at once.
菲利普斯女士1956年开始专栏时用的是阿比盖尔·范·布伦的名字。她回答关于婚姻、健康有时两者都有的来信，很快便以“高级色”的尖刻风格知名。

HELEN GURLEY BROWN, WHO GAVE “SINGLE GIRL” A LIFE IN FULL, DIES AT 90
海伦·格莉·布朗， 给单身女孩以完整生活，终年90岁

Helen Gurley Brown, who as the author of Sex and the Single Girl shocked early-1960s America with the news that unmarried women not only had sex but thoroughly enjoyed it—and who as the editor of Cosmopolitan magazine spent the next three decades telling those women precisely how to enjoy it even more—died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 90, though parts of her were considerably younger. …
海伦·格莉·布朗，《性与单身女孩》的作者，告诉人们单身女性不仅拥有还极为享受性生活，震动了1960年代的美国。作为《大都会》杂志总编辑，她在随后的30年里一直在告诉女性怎样才能享受得更多一些。她于周一在曼哈顿去世，终年90年，当然她身体有些部分比这要年轻得多。

As Cosmopolitan’s editor from 1965 until 1997, Ms. Brown was widely credited with being the first to introduce frank discussions of sex into magazines for women. The look of women’s magazines today—a sea of voluptuous models and titillating cover lines—is due in no small part to her influence.

布朗女士1965年到1997年间担任《大都会》总编辑，被广泛认为是把对性的坦率讨论带入女性杂志的第一人。女性杂志今天的样子——丰乳肥臀的模特林立与撩人的封面导语——与她的影响有不小的关系。。

	My third selection, also related to death, showcases yet another tone and style, and stands as further proof that good writing does not fit into a single formula. With deadpan wit, an affection for eccentricity, and a deft use of the English lexicon, the linguist and journalist Margalit Fox has perfected the art of the obituary.7

我的第三个选择也与死亡有关，展示出又一种调子和风格，进一步证明写得好不只一个秘诀。凭借冷幽默、对怪癖的喜爱以及对英语词汇的灵活运用，语言学家、记者马格莉特·福克斯（Margalit Fox）完善了讣告的艺术。7

plunged [the picture book] into the dark, terrifying, and hauntingly beautiful recesses of the human psyche; a trusted, tart-tongued adviser to tens of millions; a sea of voluptuous models and titillating cover lines. When you have to capture a life in just eight hundred words, you have to choose those words carefully. Fox has found some mots justes and packed them into readable phrases which put the lie to the lazy excuse that you can’t sum up a complex subject—in this case a life’s accomplishments—in just a few words.

“有令人战栗之美的人类心理幽深之处。” “深孚万千读者信任的刀子嘴顾问。” “丰乳肥臀的模特林立与撩人的封面导语。”只能用800个字来刻画人的一生，必须精心选择词汇。福克斯找到了贴切的字眼，汇成易读的文字，证明那些说复杂主题不可能用几句话就总结清楚的，不过是找借口——福克斯的主题可是一生成就。

	Roundly praised, intermittently censored, and occasionally eaten. This is a zeugma: the intentional juxtaposition of different senses of a single word. In this list, the word books is being used in the sense of both their narrative content (which can be praised or censored) and their physical form (which can be eaten). Along with putting a smile on the reader’s face, the zeugma subtly teases the bluenoses who objected to the nudity in Sendak’s drawings by juxtaposing their censorship with the innocence of the books’ readership.

“广受赞誉，时不时受审查，偶尔被老鼠吃掉。”这是一个轭式搭配用法：故意并列一个词的不同含义。上述例子里，书这个词既用作表达其内容（因此可以广受赞誉或者受审查），也用作表达书本（因此可以被老鼠吃掉）。除了让读者会心一笑之外，通过将审查与森达克读者群（老鼠）之无害并列，还巧妙地调戏了那些反对森达克画中出现祼体的道德清教徒。

	and in turn for their children. A simple phrase that tells a story—a generation of children grew up with such fond memories of Sendak’s books that they read them to their own children—and that serves as an understated tribute to the great artist.

“及其儿女们。”一句话讲述了一段历史，一代人带着对森克达画书的美好记忆长大，然后再读给自己的儿女听。这是对森达克这位伟大艺术家低调的致意。

	Dear Abby: My wife sleeps in the raw. Beginning the obit with a bang, this sample column instantly brings a pang of nostalgia to the millions of readers who grew up reading Dear Abby, and graphically introduces her life’s work to those who did not. We see for ourselves, rather than having to be told about, the offbeat problems, the waggish replies, the (for her time) liberal sensibility.

“亲爱的艾比：我妻子祼睡。” 讣告用艾比的一则专栏轰然开头，立即将数百万读亲爱的艾比文章长大的读者带入怀旧心情，也向那些没有读过的人形象地介绍了她的一生工作。我们自己看到，而不是被告知那些另类问题、风趣回答，以及相对于她所处那个时代而言的宽容明智。

	Dear Abby: Our son married a girl when he was in the service. The deliberate use of surprising transitions—colons, dashes, block quotations—is one of the hallmarks of lively prose.8 A lesser writer might have introduced this with the plodding “Here is another example of a column by Mrs. Phillips,” but Fox interrupts her narration without warning to redirect our gaze to Phillips in her prime. A writer, like a cinematographer, manipulates the viewer’s perspective on an ongoing story, with the verbal equivalent of camera angles and quick cuts.

“亲爱的艾比：我们的儿子服役的时候娶了个女孩。”有意地突然转折——冒号、破折号、引语段——是生动文章的标志之一。8 差一点的作者大概会臃肿介绍：“接下来是菲利普斯女士专栏的另一个例子。”但福克斯未作警告即打断叙述，将我们的目光再导向处于巅峰状态的菲利普斯。作者好比电影摄影师，像镜头角度和快切一样运用文字，在故事的进展中操纵观众的视角。

	the marital, the medical, and sometimes both at once. Killjoy style manuals tell writers to avoid alliteration, but good prose is enlivened with moments of poetry, like this line with its pleasing meter and its impish pairing of marital and medical.

“关于婚姻、健康，有时两者都有。”乏味的写作指南不许作者用头韵，但诗情灵光一现能给文章带来生气，就像这句，既有令人愉快的格律，也顽皮地速配了婚姻与健康问题。

	She was 90, though parts of her were considerably younger. A sly twist on the formulaic reporting and ponderous tone of conventional obituaries. We soon learn that Brown was a champion of women’s sexual self-definition, so we understand the innuendo about cosmetic surgery as good-natured rather than catty—as a joke that Brown herself would have enjoyed.

“终年90年，当然她身体有些部分远比这要年轻。”这句话巧妙地扭了传统讣告的程式化表述和乏味口吻一下腰。接下来我们会看到布朗力主妇女的性自决，所以能理解这里是关于美容手术的善意暗示——布朗本人也会欣赏这个玩笑。

	ly, flinty, tart-tongued, weepy, hard-nosed, astringent, genteelly, risqué, voluptuous, titillating. In selecting these uncommon adjectives and adverbs, Fox defies two of the commonest advisories in the stylebooks: Write with nouns and verbs, not adjectives and adverbs, and Never use an uncommon, fancy word when a common, plain one will do.

“令人难忘的、燧石般的、尖酸刻薄的、泪汪汪的、顽强的、上流的、情色的、丰乳肥臀、撩人。”福克斯使用这些不太常见的形容词和副词，对写作指南里最常见的两个建议不加理睬：用动词和名词，不要用形容词和副词；只要普通平常的词能解决问题，就不要用不常见的和花哨的词。


	But the rules are badly stated. It’s certainly true that a lot of turgid prose is stuffed with polysyllabic Latinisms (cessation for end, eventuate in for cause) and flabby adjectives (is contributive to instead of contributes to, is determinative of instead of determines). And showing off with fancy words you barely understand can make you look pompous and occasionally ridiculous. But a skilled writer can enliven and sometimes electrify her prose with the judicious insertion of a surprising word. According to studies of writing quality, a varied vocabulary and the use of unusual words are two of the features that distinguish sprightly prose from mush.9
	但这些建议说得不好。许多华而不实的文章确实塞满多音节的拉丁语风格词汇（比如用 cessation而不用end表示停止，用eventuate in而不用cause表示导致），以及松松垮垮的形容词（比如用“有贡献的”而不是用贡献，用“能决定的”而不是用“决定”。）炫耀你其实不大懂的花哨词汇只是暴露自己的浮夸偶尔还显得荒谬。但是，通过巧妙地插入令人意外的单词，老练的作者能够使文章活跃甚至兴奋起来。根据对于写作质量的研究，多变的词汇和运用特别的单词，是将活泼文章与一砣字区分开来的两个特征。9

The best words not only pinpoint an idea better than any alternative but echo it in their sound and articulation, a phenomenon called phonesthetics, the feeling of sound.10 It’s no coincidence that haunting means “haunting” and tart means “tart,” rather than the other way around; just listen to your voice and sense your muscles as you articulate them. Voluptuous has a voluptuous give-and-take between the lips and the tongue, and titillating also gives the tongue a workout while titillating the ear with a coincidental but unignorable overlap with a naughty word. These associations make a sea of voluptuous models and titillating cover lines more lively than a sea of sexy models and provocative cover lines. And a sea of pulchritudinous models would have served as a lesson on how not to choose words: the ugly pulchritude sounds like the opposite of what it means, and it is one of those words that no one ever uses unless they are trying to show off.

最恰当的单词不仅比任何其他选择都更精准地表达含义，其音调和发音也与含义相呼应。这就是音义联觉，关于音调的感觉。10 令人战栗（haunting）意味着“令人战栗”，尖酸刻薄（tart）意味着“尖酸刻薄”，都是以音定意而不是相反，并非偶然。倾听你的声音，感受发音时的肌肉活动。丰乳肥臀（Voluptuous）就有唇齿吐纳的丰肥感在，而撩人（ titillating）的发音吐字，则用一个淘气的单词撩拨耳朵，似不经意又逃不开。这些关联，使“丰乳肥臀林立”和“撩人的封面导语”比“性感模特成群”和“封面导语挑逗”生动得多。形容模特别用姽婳 （pulchritudinous），这可谓典型的不宜用词汇，其发音难听，与形容美丽的含义正好相反，而且用得极少，除非作者是用来炫耀。

	But sometimes even show-off words can work. In her obituary of the journalist Mike McGrady, who masterminded a 1979 literary hoax in which a deliberately awful bodice ripper became an international bestseller, Fox wrote, “Naked Came the Stranger was written by 25 Newsday journalists in an era when newsrooms were arguably more relaxed and inarguably more bibulous.”11 The playful bibulous, “tending to drink too much,” is related to beverage and imbibe and calls to mind babbling, bobbling, bubbling, and burbling. Readers who want to become writers should read with a dictionary at hand (several are available as smartphone apps), and writers should not hesitate to send their readers there if the word is dead-on in meaning, evocative in sound, and not so obscure that the reader will never see it again. (You can probably do without maieutic, propaedeutic, and subdoxastic.) I write with a thesaurus, mindful of the advice I once read in a bicycle repair manual on how to squeeze a dent out of a rim with Vise-Grip pliers: “Do not get carried away with the destructive potential of this tool.”

	  不过，有时即使是炫耀也无妨。在记者麦克·麦克格雷迪（Mike McGrady)的讣文中，福克斯写道：“《陌生人祼体而来》由25个今日新闻的记者合写，那个时代，编辑部可以说是更放松，不由分说地更醺醺。”11 麦克格雷迪策划了1969年（原文是1979年，应为笔误）的这场文学恶作剧，故意写了这本充满低俗色情场景的小说，却成为国际畅销书。“醺醺”二字有趣，“喝多了”，使人联想到胡言乱语（babbling）、荡漾（bobbling）、冒泡（bubbling）、 和语无伦次（burbling）。有志于成为作家的读者，阅读时须有本词典在手边（智能手机上有好多种词典apps），而作者应该毫不犹豫地采用那些读者得查词典才懂的词，只要这些词含义精准，音义相称，也没有生僻到读者永远看不到下一次（ maieutic, propaedeutic, and subdoxastic这几个词就最好不要用了）。我写作的时候常备同义词典，不过也牢记一本自行车修理手册给出的建议，在谈到能在轮子上压出凹痕的老虎钳时说，“不要被这工具的毁灭潜能冲昏头脑。”

From the early years of the twentieth century to well past its middle age, nearly every black family in the American South, which meant nearly every black family in America, had a decision to make. There were sharecroppers losing at settlement. Typists wanting to work in an office. Yard boys scared that a single gesture near the planter’s wife could leave them hanging from an oak tree. They were all stuck in a caste system as hard and unyielding as the red Georgia clay, and they each had a decision before them. In this, they were not unlike anyone who ever longed to cross the Atlantic or the Rio Grande.It was during the First World War that a silent pilgrimage took its first steps within the borders of this country. The fever rose without warning or notice or much in the way of understanding by those outside its reach. It would not end until the 1970s and would set into motion changes in the North and South that no one, not even the people doing the leaving, could have imagined at the start of it or dreamed would take a lifetime to play out.

从20世纪早期岁月直到中页过去很久，美国南方的几乎每个黑人家庭，也就是美国的几乎每个黑人家庭，都有个决定得做。在纠纷处理中受损的佃农，想求得一份办公室工作的打字员，担心在庄园主妻子身侧行差走错就会被吊死在橡树上的园丁，他们都陷在这个像乔治亚红土一样坚硬死板的种姓制度里，每个人面前都有个决定得做。在这个意义上，他们与渴望越过大西洋或者格兰得河（美墨界河）的所有人并无不同。在第一次世界大战中，美国内部一场寂静的朝圣之旅迈出了第一步。这场高烧发作起来，并无预警和提示，也不大被身处其外的人们理解。它到1970年代才结束，在北方和南方启动了一系列变革，无论是谁，即使是那些选择离开的人们，最初都想象不到这些变革，也做梦都想不到，需要人的一生才完成。

Historians would come to call it the Great Migration. It would become perhaps the biggest underreported story of the twentieth century. …

历史学家将把这称作大迁徙。它将成为20世纪被漏报的最大故事……

The actions of the people in this book were both universal and distinctly American. Their migration was a response to an economic and social structure not of their making. They did what humans have done for centuries when life became untenable—what the pilgrims did under the tyranny of British rule, what the Scotch-Irish did in Oklahoma when the land turned to dust, what the Irish did when there was nothing to eat, what the European Jews did during the spread of Nazism, what the landless in Russia, Italy, China, and elsewhere did when something better across the ocean called to them. What binds these stories together was the back-against-the-wall, reluctant yet hopeful search for something better, any place but where they were. They did what human beings looking for freedom, throughout history, have often done.

They left.

书中这些人的行动既普遍又是典型美国式的。他们的迁徙是对一个并非出自他们之手经济和社会结构的回答。他们做了很多个世纪以来人类在生活难以为继时做过的事情——朝圣者们在英国国教的暴政下做过，苏格兰人-爱尔兰人在俄克拉荷马的土地化为沙尘时做过，爱尔兰人在没饭吃时做过，欧洲犹太人在纳粹肆虐时做过，俄罗斯、意大利、中国和其他地方无地可依的人在大洋彼岸更美好前程招手时做过。把这些故事绑在一起的是退无可退，不得已但仍怀抱希望寻求出路，不管它在哪里，只要不是这里。他们做了贯穿整个人类历史人们在寻找自由时常做的事。

他们走了。


	In The Warmth of Other Suns, the journalist Isabel Wilkerson ensured that the story of the Great Migration would be underreported no longer.12 Calling it “great” is no exaggeration. The movement of millions of African Americans from the Deep South to Northern cities set off the civil rights movement, redrew the urban landscape, rewrote the agenda of American politics and education, and transformed American culture and, with it, world culture.
在《他乡暖阳》中，记者伊莎贝拉·威尔克森保证了大迁移故事再也不会被漏报。12 “大迁徙”之称绝不夸张。数以百万计的非裔美国人从南方腹部迁徒到北方城市，推动了民权运动，重画了城市版图，重写了美国政治和教育的日程表，并改变了美国文化，随之改变了世界文化。
	Wilkerson not only rectifies the world’s ignorance about the Great Migration, but with twelve hundred interviews and crystalline prose she makes us understand it in its full human reality. We live in an era of social science, and have become accustomed to understanding the social world in terms of “forces,” “pressures,” “processes,” and “developments.” It is easy to forget that those “forces” are statistical summaries of the deeds of millions of men and women who act on their beliefs in pursuit of their desires. The habit of submerging the individual into abstractions can lead not only to bad science (it’s not as if the “social forces” obeyed Newton’s laws) but to dehumanization. We are apt to think, “I (and my kind) choose to do things for reasons; he (and his kind) are part of a social process.” This was a moral of Orwell’s essay “Politics and the English Language,” which warned against dehumanizing abstraction: “Millions of peasants are robbed of their farms and sent trudging along the roads with no more than they can carry: this is called transfer of population or rectification of frontiers.” With an allergy to abstraction and a phobia of cliché, Wilkerson trains a magnifying glass on the historical blob called “the Great Migration” and reveals the humanity of the people who compose it.
威尔克森不仅纠正了世界对于大迁徙的无知，通过1200个采访和清澈的文章，她还使我们得以完整地理解大迁徙的人性现实。我们生活在社会科学的时代，已经习惯于通过“力量”、“压力”、“过程”、“进展”这些术语来理解社会，太容易忘记，这些“力量”是数以百万计男女渴望、追求、信念、行动的概要。用抽象掩盖个体不仅是做烂学问（“社会力量”可不遵守牛顿定律），更去掉了人性。我们很容易这样：“我（和我这样的）选择做各种事情是各有其理由；他（和他那样的）则是社会过程的一部分。”这正是奥威尔《政治与英语》一文的寓意，警告不要陷入去人性化的抽象：“数百万农民被剥夺了农场，被逼上颠沛流离之路，全部家当都在身上：这被叫作人口转移或者新垦地调整。”对抽象过敏，对陈辞滥调本能地恐惧，威尔克森用放大镜对准叫作“大迁徙”的这一团历史，展现出了那些谱写这段历史的人们的人性。


	From the early years of the twentieth century to well past its middle age. Not even the chronology is described in conventional language: the century is an aging person, a contemporary of the story’s protagonists.
“从20世纪早期岁月直到中页过去很久以后。”哪怕是年代用的也不是寻常语言：这个世纪好比老去的人，与故事的主人公们同时代的人。
	Typists wanting to work in an office. Not “denial of economic opportunities.” By invoking a moderately skilled occupation from an earlier era, Wilkerson invites us to imagine the desperation of a woman who has acquired a proficiency that could lift her from the cotton fields to a professional office but who is denied the chance because of the color of her skin.
“想在办公室工作的打字员。”而不是“被拒绝了经济机会”。通过引出早前年代的这一普通熟练工种，威尔克森邀请我们想象一名妇女的绝望，她已掌握了一些技技巧，本可以把自己从棉花地提升到办公室，但因为肤色，她没有机会。

	Yard boys scared that a single gesture near the planter’s wife could leave them hanging from an oak tree. Not “oppression,” not “the threat of violence,” not even “lynching,” but a horrific physical image. We even see what kind of tree it is.
“担心因在庄园主妻子身侧一个动作做错就会被吊在橡树上的园丁。” 不是“压迫”，不是“暴力威胁”，甚至也不是“私刑”，只是一个骇人的关于身体的图象。我们甚至能看到这树是什么。

	as hard and unyielding as the red Georgia clay. Once again prose is brought to life with a snatch of poetry, as in this simile with its sensual image, its whiff of allusion (I think of Martin Luther King’s “red hills of Georgia”), and its lyrical anapest meter.

“像乔治亚红土一样坚硬死板。”这个比喻中鲜明的意像、典故的运用（我想到了马丁·路德·金写的“乔治亚的红色山丘”），和抒情的抑抑场格，再一次显示，诗意能使文章活起来。

	anyone who ever longed to cross the Atlantic or the Rio Grande. Not “immigrants from Europe or Mexico.” Once again the people are not sociological categories. The author forces us to visualize bodies in motion and to remember the motives that pulled them along.
“渴望越过大西洋或者格兰得河（美墨界河）的所有人。”不是“从欧洲或墨西哥来的移民”。人群在这里不属于社会学分类。作者强迫我们想象那些移动着的身体，并记住拖着他们前行的那些动力。

	what the pilgrims did … what the Scotch-Irish did … what the European Jews did … what the landless in Russia, Italy, China, and elsewhere did. Wilkerson begins the paragraph by stating that the actions of her protagonists are universal, but she does not rest with that generalization. She nominates the Great Migration for inclusion in a list of storied emigrations (expressed in pleasingly parallel syntax), whose descendants doubtless include many of her readers. Those readers are implicitly invited to apply their respect for their ancestors’ courage and sacrifice to the forgotten pilgrims of the Great Migration.

“那些朝圣者做过……那些苏格兰人-爱尔兰人做过……那些欧洲犹太人做过……那些俄罗斯、意大利、中国以及其他地方的人做过。”威尔克森在这段开头说，书中主人公的行动是普遍性的，但她没有停在一般陈述上。她提名“大迁徙”进入广为流传的一系列历史性移民事件当中（用令人愉阅的排比句来表达），肯定有许多移民后裔是本书读者，他们收到含蓄的邀请，将其对祖先勇气、牺牲的敬意，投射到这场“大迁徙”中被遗忘的朝圣者身上来。

	when the land turned to dust, not “the Dust Bowl”; when there was nothing to eat, not “the Potato Famine”; the landless, not “the peasants.” Wilkerson will not allow us to snooze through a recitation of familiar verbiage. Fresh wording and concrete images force us to keep updating the virtual reality display in our minds.
“当土地化作沙尘”，而不是“沙尘暴”；“当没吃的”，而不是土豆饥荒“；”无地可依的人”，而不是“农民”。威尔克森不许我们在连篇累牍的重述中打盹。新鲜的用词和具体的意像，迫使我们持续更新大脑中的现实投影。

	They left. Among the many dumb rules of paragraphing foisted on students in composition courses is the one that says that a paragraph may not consist of a single sentence. Wilkerson ends a richly descriptive introductory chapter with a paragraph composed of exactly two syllables. The abrupt ending and the expanse of blankness at the bottom of the page mirror the finality of the decision to move and the uncertainty of the life that lay ahead. Good writing finishes strong.
“他们走了。” 关于段落写作有许多强加于写作课程学生的愚蠢规则，其中之一是一段话不能只有一句。但在这里，用仅仅两个音节构成的一段话，威尔克森为包含丰富描写的序章作结。突如其来的结尾、页尾的延伸空白，折射出离去之坚定与前程之不明。好文章须有豹尾。

	The authors of the four passages share a number of practices: an insistence on fresh wording and concrete imagery over familiar verbiage and abstract summary; an attention to the readers’ vantage point and the target of their gaze; the judicious placement of an uncommon word or idiom against a backdrop of simple nouns and verbs; the use of parallel syntax; the occasional planned surprise; the presentation of a telling detail that obviates an explicit pronouncement; the use of meter and sound that resonate with the meaning and mood.

上面四篇文章的作者有一些共通做法：坚决用新鲜词汇和具体意象，而不用陈词滥调和抽象总结；关注读者的观察角度及其视线目标；以简单的名词和动词打底，审慎而明智地插入不常见的词汇或成语；使用排比句；偶然出现精心安排的意外；呈现有说服力的细节，以避免作公开声明；格律与发音与要表达的含义和情緒有共鸣。

	The authors also share an attitude: they do not hide the passion and relish that drive them to tell us about their subjects. They write as if they have something important to say. But no, that doesn’t capture it. They write as if they have something important to show. And that, we shall see, is a key ingredient in the sense of style.

这些作者还拥有一个共同的态度：不隐藏那些推动他们来讲述其主题的激情和兴趣。他们写，是因为他们有重要的东西要讲。不，不对，说得还不准确。他们写，是因为他们有重要的东西要展示。我们将会看到，这是风格感的关键因素。