Meditation Apps and the Gospel of Self-Optimization
JUNE 11, 2019  |  ANN AJET

冥想应用程序和自我优化的福音

Stressed at the thought of my anxiety-inducing to-do list, I decided to test the popular meditation and mindfulness app Calm, which has been downloaded 12 million times to help people de-stress. I click on the “chasing wonder” thumbnail and am soon immersed in the sights and sounds of a gushing lake, surrounded by trimmed fir trees and dwarfed by snow-capped mountains.

一想到我那令人焦虑的待办事项清单，我就紧张不安，我决定测试一下流行的冥想和正念应用程序Calm，它已经被下载了1200万次，帮助人们解压。我点击 "追逐奇迹 "的缩略图，很快就沉浸在一个喷涌而出的湖景和声音中，周围是修剪过的冷杉树，被白雪皑皑的山峰遮挡。

Meditation-via-app has become fashionable recently, popularized by the likes of Lionel Messi, Novak Djokovic, and Katy Perry, who practice it to boost their performance. Historically, however, meditation had different purposes. The practice was tethered toward encountering the transcendent.

最近，通过应用程序进行冥想已经成为一种时尚，受到梅西、德约科维奇和凯蒂·佩里等人的追捧。他们通过冥想来提高自己的表现。然而，在历史上，冥想有不同的目的。练习是为了把自己束缚在与超自然xiang f相逢的途中。

How has the use of meditation change in our secular age? And why, despite its ease and popularity, does it leave us impoverished?

在我们这个世俗时代，冥想的使用发生了什么变化？尽管冥想很容易，也很受欢迎，但为什么却让我们陷入贫瘠的境地？

Overstressed World
The proliferation of meditation apps like Calm and Headspace has become a $14 billion business because it addresses a bigger societal problem: Work is stressing us out more than ever. The increasing pressure and burnout we face at work stems from a new religion that Atlantic journalist Derek Thompson calls “workism”—the doctrine that work is “not only necessary to economic production but also the centerpiece of one’s identity and life’s purpose; and the belief that any policy to promote human welfare must always encourage more work.”

过度紧张的世界

像Calm和Headspace这样的冥想应用程序已经扩展成为一个140亿美元的生意，因为它们在设法解决一个更大的社会问题：工作给我们的压力超出以往。我们在工作中面临的压力和倦怠越来越大，这源于一种新的宗教，《大西洋月刊》记者德里克·汤普森（Derek Thompson）称之为 
 “工作主义”——这种学说认为工作 “不仅是经济生产所必需，而且是一个人身份和生活目标的核心；并认为任何促进人类福利的政策必须始终鼓励更多的工作。”

When work becomes the centerpiece of existence, it will inevitably beckon us to strive harder and will set us up for exhaustion. This is the trap I fell into, in my late-20s. Hustle-Eat-Sleep-Repeat became the pernicious beat I marched to as I chased the secular standard of perfection in London. Days felt like a race to the finish line, such that even lunch breaks were tinged with guilt.

当工作成为生存的核心时，它将不可避免地召唤我们更加努力，并将使陷我们于疲惫。这就是我在20多岁时落入的陷阱。当我在伦敦追逐世俗的完美标准时，“忙——吃——睡——重复”成了我前进路上恶性循环的节奏。每天都仿佛在向着终点线冲刺，甚至连午休都带着愧疚。

Times are changing. Today it’s common to find a crowd of hipster employees sitting in zen-like poses, meditating on the boardroom floor during lunch breaks. This is no longer considered weird. “Especially in Silicon Valley, it’s surprising if somebody doesn’t meditate,” explained Calm CEO Alex Tew, whose app boasted 30,000 new users per day in 2018. Employers are also aware of the workism problem and recognize that employees need space to de-stress and meditate. Many testify to the benefits, including Perry: “I meditate before I write a song, before I perform. I feel my brain open up and I feel my most sharp.”

时代在悄悄地起变化。今天，经常可以看到一群时髦员工在午休时以坐禅的姿势在会议室地板上打坐，人们不再把这当成是一件咄咄怪事。“特别是在硅谷，如果有人不打坐，那反而很奇怪了。”Calm首席执行官Alex Tew解释说，其应用程序在2018年每天新增3万名用户。雇主们也意识到了工作主义问题，并认识到员工需要空间来减压和冥想。许多人证明了它的好处，包括佩里：“我在写歌之前，在表演之前都会冥想。我感觉我的大脑打开了，我感到了自己最吸引人的一面。”

Gospel of Self-Optimization
It’s noteworthy that the most popular meditation app, Calm, draws heavily from nature, immersing users in an ecosystem of natural beauty. For a moment, the grandeur of mountains and the sounds of crashing waves lift our heads above the doldrums of our day and remind us there’s more to life than what our strict enclosures offer. There’s something about the vastness of creation that shrinks the self, kindles spiritual questions, and puts our day-to-day problems in perspective.

自我优化的福音
值得注意的是，最受欢迎的冥想应用程序Calm大量借鉴了大自然，让用户沉浸在一个自然美景的生态系统中。有那么一刻，壮丽的山脉和汹涌的海浪让我们的头抬起来，摆脱一天的低迷，提醒我们生活还有很多东西，比圈住我们的空间更值得追求。 浩瀚的创造会缩小自我，引发属灵的疑问，并正确看待我们的日常问题。

But such experiences are flattened when meditation is reduced to a life hack—an efficiency tool to help transform every minute of our day into economic value. It’s entrepreneurs like Elon Musk (who once worked 120 hours a week) who admonish us to sacrifice at the altar of work, since “nobody ever changed the world on a 40-hour week.” This belief fosters a culture in which burnout is celebrated and work is worshiped. But inside we all know this suppresses what’s important, reducing wonder and beauty to mere cogs for utilitarian ends.

但是，当冥想被简化为一种生活黑客--一种帮助我们将一天中的每一分钟转化为经济价值的效率工具时，这种体验就变得平淡了。像埃隆-马斯克（曾经每周工作120小时）这样的企业家告诫我们要在工作的祭坛上做出牺牲，因为 "从来没有人在每周40小时内改变世界"。这种信念培养了一种文化，在这种文化中，倦怠被赞美，工作被崇拜。但我们内心都知道，这压制了重要的东西，将奇迹和美降低到仅仅是为功利目的的齿轮。

Historically, the practice of meditation and wondering at the beauty of the world moved people to upward belief, a curiosity about higher things and a sense of transcendence beyond the self. But in the age of meditation apps and “mindfulness” techniques, contemplation—like much else in our flattened, buffered, secular frame—is re-framed in terms of immanence and personal life-enhancement. Rather than pulling us out of the orbit of self into higher ends, things like nature are pulled into our orbit to be harnessed for our ends.

从历史上看，冥想的实践和对世界之美的思索使人们走向了向上的信仰，对更高的事物的好奇心和超越自我的感觉。但在冥想应用程序和 "正念 "技术的时代，沉思就像我们扁平的、缓冲的、世俗的框架中的许多其他东西一样，被重新定格在内在性和个人生活的提升方面。与其说是把我们从自我的轨道上拉到更高的目标，不如说是把像自然这样的东西拉到我们的轨道上，为我们的目标所利用。

Meditation has become a life hack to the gospel of self-optimization. Akin to an eerie scene from a Black Mirror episode, we’re powered up from meditation and optimized as human capital to increase our net productivity. Meditation apps are just one more tool in our toolbox to help raise a generation of lean, mean, production machines. But it’s having the opposite effect. By forcing even nature’s spacious, awe-inspiring beauty into the claustrophobic confines of personal productivity, we further reinforce the notion that the world revolves around us and our optimized utility. That is a heavy burden indeed, and it’s not making us happier.

冥想已经成为自我优化的福音的生活黑客。就像《黑镜》中的一个阴森恐怖的场景，我们从冥想中获得动力，作为人力资本进行优化，以提高我们的净生产力。冥想应用程序只是我们的工具箱中的又一个工具，以帮助培养一代精简、卑鄙的生产机器。但它的效果却恰恰相反。通过将自然界宽敞的、令人敬畏的美景强行纳入个人生产力的幽闭空间，我们进一步强化了这样一种观念：世界是围绕着我们和我们的优化效用而转动的。这的确是一个沉重的负担，而且它不会让我们更快乐。

Meditation apps are just one more tool in our toolbox to help raise a generation of lean, mean, production machines.

冥想应用程序只是我们的工具箱中又多了一个工具，帮助我们培养出一代精益求精的生产机器。
 
Mindfulness That Points Upward
One of the earliest forms of mindfulness in the Bible was practiced by Israel’s King David more than 3,000 years ago. When he considered creation around him, unmediated by technology, he contemplated its wonder. David didn’t know then what NASA tells us now about our tiny place in a vast cosmos: We are one of 7.7 billion people who inhabit Earth. The earth and sun are part of the solar system. Our sun is one of at least one 100 billion stars in the Milky Way. The Milky Way galaxy is just one of a hundred billion galaxies in the universe.

向上看的正念
圣经》中最早的正念形式之一是由以色列国王大卫在3000多年前实行的。当他考虑到他周围的创造物时，在没有技术中介的情况下，他沉思着它的奇迹。大卫当时并不知道美国宇航局现在告诉我们的关于我们在广阔宇宙中的微小位置。我们是居住在地球上的77亿人中的一员。地球和太阳是太阳系的一部分。我们的太阳是银河系中至少1000亿颗星星中的一颗。银河系只是宇宙中一千亿个星系中的一个。

But even without knowing the mind-blowing scale that science has since discovered, David knows just by observing nature with his senses that it is vastly bigger than he is:

但即使不知道科学后来发现的令人震惊的规模，大卫仅仅通过用感官观察自然界就知道它比他大得多。

When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, and the stars, which you have set in place, what is mankind that you are mindful of them? Human beings that you care for them? (Ps. 8:3–4)

我想你的天，就是你指头所造的，月亮和星辰，都是你所定的，人算什么，你还顾念他们？人是什么，你竟顾念他们呢？(Ps. 8:3-4)

Mindful God
We are not unique snowflakes. We are literally the lowest numerical denominator possible—nano blips to the minus nth degree. Yet the Creator “crowned us with glory and honor” (Ps. 8:5). The implication is this: We don’t have an impersonal designer, but one who is mindful of us despite our smallness.

有心的上帝
我们不是独一无二的雪花。我们实际上是最低的数字分母--纳米级的零点。然而，造物主 "以荣耀和尊贵为我们的冠冕"（诗8:5）。其含义是这样的。我们没有一个非个人化的设计者，而是一个尽管我们很渺小但仍关注我们的人。

When we detach meditation from a Godward orientation and use it only for self-optimization, we limit our ability to be mindful of the God who is mindful of us. We numb ourselves to the beauty around that points to the ultimate Beauty—God himself. We risk ignoring the divine signs that Paul describes: “God’s invisible qualities—his eternal power and divine nature—have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made” (Rom. 1:20).

当我们把冥想从向神的方向分离出来，只用于自我优化时，我们就限制了我们注意到注意我们的神的能力。我们对周围指向终极之美--上帝本身的美感到麻木。我们有可能忽视保罗所描述的神圣的迹象。"神的无形之质--他的永能和神性--是明明可知的，从所造之物可以知道"（罗马书1:20）。

Contrary to what meditation apps and their soothing waterfall sounds might suggest, nature does not exist to optimize personal productivity. It exists to point us to a personal God, without whom we will always be spiritually malnourished.

与冥想应用程序及其舒缓的瀑布声可能暗示的相反，自然界的存在不是为了优化个人生产力。它的存在是为了将我们指向一位个人的上帝，没有他，我们将永远在精神上营养不良。

Editors’ note: 
This article was adapted from a piece that first appeared at Breadtruth.com.

Ann Ajet is the lead writer at Bread and is a member of Redeemer Church London. She writes articles that cover the intersection between culture and faith. When she’s not writing, she’s exploring street food markets with her husband and daughter.

编者注。
本文改编自首次出现在Breadtruth.com的一篇文章。

安-阿杰特是面包网的首席作家，是伦敦救世主教会的成员。她写的文章涉及文化和信仰之间的交集。当她不写作的时候，她会和她的丈夫和女儿一起去探索街头食品市场。