          

好的写作能翻转看世界的角度，就好像心理学教材里的剪影，既可看作高脚杯，又可看作两张脸。在刚才的六个句子里，道金斯翻转了我们对死亡的认知，表达了一个理性主义者对生命的礼赞，所用的语言令人如此触动，我就知道有许多人本主义者要求在自己将来的葬礼上朗诵这些话。

What is it that makes a person the very person that she is, herself alone and not another, an integrity of identity that persists over time, undergoing changes and yet still continuing to be—until she does not continue any longer, at least not unproblematically?

是什么让一个人成为她现在存在的样子? 是什么让她不是另外一个人而偏偏是她自己？是什么让她跨越时间的流逝，经历不停的变化，却保持着完整的同一性？直到她不能（起码不能顺顺当当地）继续存在为止？

I stare at the picture of a small child at a summer’s picnic, clutching her big sister’s hand with one tiny hand while in the other she has a precarious hold on a big slice of watermelon that she appears to be struggling to have intersect with the small o of her mouth. That child is me. But why is she me? I have no memory at all of that summer’s day, no privileged knowledge of whether that child succeeded in getting the watermelon into her mouth. It’s true that a smooth series of contiguous physical events can be traced from her body to mine, so that we would want to say that her body is mine; and perhaps bodily identity is all that our personal identity consists in. But bodily persistence over time, too, presents philosophical dilemmas. The series of contiguous physical events has rendered the child’s body so different from the one I glance down on at this moment; the very atoms that composed her body no longer compose mine. And if our bodies are dissimilar, our points of view are even more so. Mine would be as inaccessible to her—just let her try to figure out [Spinoza’s] Ethics—as hers is now to me. Her thought processes, prelinguistic, would largely elude me.

我注视着这幅照片。夏日野餐中的小女孩，一只小手紧紧抓住大姐姐，另一只手颤巍巍拿着一大片西瓜，小嘴张成圆型，努力与之相切（译注：读后文可知，平克对这段文字的欣赏源于，它用词都符合一个没学会语言的幼童的心理，不直接用咬、吃，而是精确描述其动作，构成一种几何画面感。）。这个小女孩就是我。但为什么她是我？我完全不记得那个夏日，对那个小女孩有没有成功将西瓜放进嘴里也无亲知。确实，从那个小女孩的身体到今日之我的身体，存在着一个连续物理事件的平滑序列，也许身体的同一性正是我们个体的同一性恓身之所。但是，此身于时光中如一也带来哲学悖论。那个连续物理事件的平滑序列，使小女孩的身体与此刻我自视所见的身体如此不同；那构成她身体的原子，不再构成我的身体。而且，如果说我们的身体不一样，那我们的观念就更不一样。我的观念对于她——让她了解斯宾诺莎伦理学试试看——就如同她的观念对于我一样难以懂得。她的前语言的思维过程，大多在我的理解之外。

Yet she is me, that tiny determined thing in the frilly white pinafore. She has continued to exist, survived her childhood illnesses, the near-drowning in a rip current on Rockaway Beach at the age of twelve, other dramas. There are presumably adventures that she—that is that I—can’t undergo and still continue to be herself. Would I then be someone else or would I just no longer be? Were I to lose all sense of myself—were schizophrenia or demonic possession, a coma or progressive dementia to remove me from myself—would it be I who would be undergoing those trials, or would I have quit the premises? Would there then be someone else, or would there be no one?

然而，那个穿着白色褶边围裙的下定决心的小东西，毕竟是我。她继续存在，经历了各种儿时疾病、12岁时差点在罗卡威海滩的激流中溺水，以及其他险情。可以想见，假如发生的是别的历险，她——也就是说我——将不再是她自己。那我会变成另外一个人还是会不再存在？如果我丧失对自己的所有感知——不管是因为精神分裂还是邪灵附体，因为昏迷还是日渐痴呆——那个经历这些考验的还是我吗？还是说我已灵魂脱窍？那存在的是另一个人？还是谁也不存在？

Is death one of those adventures from which I can’t emerge as myself? The sister whose hand I am clutching in the picture is dead. I wonder every day whether she still exists. A person whom one has loved seems altogether too significant a thing to simply vanish altogether from the world. A person whom one loves is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world. How can worlds like these simply cease altogether? But if my sister does exist, then what is she, and what makes that thing that she now is identical with the beautiful girl laughing at her little sister on that forgotten day?

死亡是否那样一种历险，我不可能从中归来而仍是我自己？我在照片中紧紧抓住手的那个姐姐已经死了。我每天都在想她是否仍然存在。被爱过的人似乎总是那么重要，不会从世界上就这样完全消失。你爱过的人是一个世界，如同你知道自己也是一个世界。这样的世界怎么可能就此完全终结？但是，如果我的姐姐仍然存在，那么她是什么？又是什么，能使得她现今的存在，与那个已被淡忘的日子里对小妹妹微笑的美丽女孩，是同一个人？

 In this passage from Betraying Spinoza, the philosopher and novelist Rebecca Newberger Goldstein (to whom I am married) explains the philosophical puzzle of personal identity, one of the problems that engaged the Dutch-Jewish thinker who is the subject of her book.5 Like her fellow humanist Dawkins, Goldstein analyzes the vertiginous enigma of existence and death, but their styles could not be more different—a reminder of the diverse ways that the resources of language can be deployed to illuminate a topic. Dawkins’s could fairly be called masculine, with its confrontational opening, its cold abstractions, its aggressive imagery, its glorification of alpha males. Goldstein’s is personal, evocative, reflective, yet intellectually just as rigorous.

这段文字摘自《背叛斯宾诺莎》，哲学家和小说家瑞贝卡·纽伯格·戈德斯坦（Rebecca Newberger Goldstein，也是我的妻子）解释了个体同一性的哲学之谜。这个问题吸引了斯宾诺莎，定居荷兰的犹太思想家、书中的主人公。5 与人道主义者同仁道金斯一样，戈德斯坦分析了生存与死亡令人眩晕的谜题，但两者的风格差别之大，说明语言的资源丰饶，足以用多种方式来阐明同一个主题。道金斯的写法是男性的：咄咄逼人的开头、冷酷的抽象、挑衅的意象、对雄性领袖的赞美。戈德斯坦的写法言由己出，引人共鸣，触发遐思，却又不失心智上的严谨。

 at least not unproblematically. The categories of grammar reflect the building blocks of thought—time, space, causality, matter—and a philosophical wordsmith can play with them to awaken her readers to metaphysical conundrums. Here we have an adverb, unproblematically, modifying the verb continue, an ellipsis for continue to be. Ordinarily to be is not the kind of verb that can be modified by an adverb. To be or not to be—it’s hard to see shades of gray there. The unexpected adverb puts an array of metaphysical, theological, and personal questions on the table before us.

“at least not unproblematically.” 起码没有顺顺当当地。”语法的分类反映思维的构件——时间、空间、因果、事情。哲学作者可运用它们以唤醒读者注意到形而上学难题。这里出现了一个副词：“unproblematically顺顺当当地”，修饰动词continue继续，也就是continue to be继续存在的省略。存在 to be这类动词通常不能用副词来修饰——存在或者不存在，两者之间没有渐变。unproblematically顺顺当当地这个副词的意外出现，将形而上学的、神学的和个人的问题摆到桌面上来。

 a big slice of watermelon that she appears to be struggling to have intersect with the small o of her mouth. Good writing is understood with the mind’s eye.6 The unusual description of the familiar act of eating in terms of its geometry—a piece of fruit intersecting with an o—forces the reader to pause and conjure a mental image of the act rather than skating over a verbal summary. We find the little girl in the photograph endearing not because the author has stooped to telling us so with words like cute or adorable but because we can see her childlike mannerisms for ourselves—as the author herself is doing when pondering the little alien who somehow is her. We see the clumsiness of a small hand manipulating an adult-sized object; the determination to master a challenge we take for granted; the out-of-sync mouth anticipating the sweet, juicy reward. The geometric language also prepares us for the prelinguistic thinking that Goldstein introduces in the next paragraph: we regress to an age at which “to eat” and even “to put in your mouth” are abstractions, several levels removed from the physical challenge of making an object intersect with a body part.

_“_另一只手颤巍巍拿着一大片西瓜，小嘴张成圆型，努力与之相切_”_ 好文章能通过想象理解。6 寻常的吃西瓜用了不寻常的几何学词汇来表达：一大片西瓜与张开的口型圆形相切。这迫使读者停下并在脑海中想象出这一幕，而不是浮光掠影翻过去。我们觉得照片中的小女孩可爱，不是因为作者屈尊用了“可爱”、“迷人”这些词，而是因为我们想象得出她稚气的举止，就像作者想象这个出于某种原因就是她本人的小外星人时一样。我们看到一只小手笨笨地想要拿住大件；看到她要对付一个对大人不成问题的挑战的决心；看到张大到错位的小嘴巴，期待满嘴的香甜。使用几何学语言，也使读者为戈德斯坦下一段要介绍的前语言的思维作好准备：（we regress to an age at which “to eat” and even “to put in your mouth” are abstractions, several levels removed from the physical challenge of making an object intersect with a body part.）（译注：这句还需要斟酌）参考译文1：我们退回到童年，连“吃”甚至“放嘴里”都是抽象概念，不得不退而求其次，用物体与身体几何相切的方式，描述身体遇到的这种挑战。参考译文2：我们退回到连“吃”和“放嘴里”都是抽象概念的幼年，当物体与身体的局部相切时，身体受到的挑战在好几个层面上是不同的。

 That child is me. But why is she me? … [My point of view] would be as inaccessible to her … as hers is now to me. … There are presumably adventures that she—that is that I—can’t undergo and still continue to be herself. Would I then be someone else? Goldstein repeatedly juxtaposes nouns and pronouns in the first and third person: that child … me; she … I … herself; I … someone else. The syntactic confusion about which grammatical person belongs in which phrase reflects our intellectual confusion about the very meaning of the concept “person.” She also plays with to be, the quintessentially existential verb, to engage our existential puzzlement: Would I then be someone else or would I just no longer be? … Would there then be someone else, or would there be no one?

这个小女孩就是我。但为什么她就是我？……我的观念对于她，就如同她的观念对于我一样难以理解。……可以想见，假如发生的是其他奇遇，她——也就是说我——不可能还是她自己。那我会变成另外一个人吗？戈德斯坦反复地并列使用第一和第三人称的名词和代词：那个孩子……我；她……我……她自己；我……其他人。哪个语法人称对应哪个短语，有句法的混淆，却恰好反映了我们对于“人”的意义本来就存在心智上的混淆。她还运用了“存在”这个经典的动词，以吸引我们的存在主义困惑：我会变成另外一个人吗？我会因此不再存在吗……那存在的是另一个人？还是谁也不存在？

 frilly white pinafore. The use of an old-fashioned word for an old-fashioned garment helps date the snapshot for us, without the cliché faded photograph.

“满是花边的白围裙。” 用一个老式的词来形容一件老式的衣服，帮助确定了照片的年代，而无需用褪色照片这种陈词。

 The sister whose hand I am clutching in the picture is dead. After eighteen sentences that mix wistful nostalgia with abstract philosophizing, the reverie is punctured by a stark revelation. However painful it must have been to predicate the harsh word dead of a beloved sister, no euphemism—has passed away, is no longer with us—could have ended that sentence. The topic of the discussion is how we struggle to reconcile the indubitable fact of death with our incomprehension of the possibility that a person can no longer exist. Our linguistic ancestors parlayed that incomprehension into euphemisms like passed on in which death consists of a journey to a remote location. Had Goldstein settled for these weasel words, she would have undermined her analysis before it began.

“我在照片中紧紧抓住手的那个姐姐已经死了。”前面18个句子混合了伤感的回忆和抽象的哲思，然后暇思被残酷的启示打断。不管说亲爱姐姐死了多么令人痛苦，用委婉的词汇——逝去、离世——在此是无法完成这个句子的。这里讨论的主题是我们怎样努力弥合死亡不容置疑的事实与对斯人已逝的无法理解。先人们曾创造出委婉的词汇，如“走了”，似乎死亡是朝向远方的旅行。假如戈德斯坦也采纳了这类推诿的修饰，那她的分析还没开始就被自己毁掉了。

 I wonder every day whether she still exists. A person whom one has loved seems altogether too significant a thing to simply vanish altogether from the world. A person whom one loves is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world. How can worlds like these simply cease altogether? This passage fills my eyes every time I read it, and not just because it is about a sister-in-law I will never meet. With a spare restatement of what philosophers call the hard problem of consciousness (A person … is a world, just as one knows oneself to be a world), Goldstein creates an effect that is richly emotional. The puzzlement in having to make sense of this abstract philosophical conundrum mingles with the poignancy of having to come to terms with the loss of someone we love. It is not just the selfish realization that we have been robbed of their third-person company, but the unselfish realization that they have been robbed of their first-person experience.

“我每天都在想她是否仍然存在。被爱过的人似乎总是那么重要，不会从世界上这就样完全消失。你爱过的人是一个世界，如同你知道自己也是一个世界。这样的世界怎么可能就此完全终结？”每次读到这段话都令我泪水盈眶，不仅因为写的是我绝不可能谋面的妻姐。哲学家们称之为关于意识的难题（一个人……是一个世界，正如每个人都知道自己是一个世界）经过简洁重述，创造了饱满深情的效果。理解这个抽象哲学难题的困惑，与不得不接受我们所爱的人已逝的辛酸，混杂在一起。这不仅是“以自我为中心”的认识：他们不仅作为第三人称、作为我的伙伴被夺走了；也是“不以自我为中心”的认识：他们作为第一人称、作为他们自己的经验也被抢走了。

 The passage also reminds us of the overlap in techniques for writing fiction and nonfiction. The interweaving of the personal and the philosophical in this excerpt is being used as an expository device, to help us understand the issues that Spinoza wrote about. But it is also a theme that runs through Goldstein’s fiction, namely that the obsessions of academic philosophy—personal identity, consciousness, truth, will, meaning, morality—are of a piece with the obsessions of human beings as they try to make sense of their lives.

这些文字提醒我们注意虚构与非虚构写作技巧的重合之处。引文中个人与哲学思考交织，以用作解释工具，帮助我们理解斯宾诺莎所写的主题。但它也是贯穿戈德斯坦虚构部分的主题，也就是对于学院哲学——个体同一性、意识、真理、意志、意义、道德——的迷醉，与人们试图找到其生命意义的那种迷醉，本是一体。